
--- Page 1 ---
Werner, Richard A.
Article
Towards a New Monetary Paradigm: A Quantity Theorem
of Disaggregated Credit, with Evidence from Japan
Kredit und Kapital
Provided in Cooperation with:
Duncker & Humblot, Berlin
Suggested Citation: Werner, Richard A. (1997) : Towards a New Monetary Paradigm: A Quantity
Theorem of Disaggregated Credit, with Evidence from Japan, Kredit und Kapital, ISSN 0023-4591,
Duncker & Humblot, Berlin, Vol. 30, Iss. 2, pp. 276-309,
https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276
This Version is available at:
https://hdl.handle.net/10419/293352
Standard-Nutzungsbedingungen:
Die Dokumente auf EconStor dürfen zu eigenen wissenschaftlichen
Zwecken und zum Privatgebrauch gespeichert und kopiert werden.
Sie dürfen die Dokumente nicht für öffentliche oder kommerzielle
Zwecke vervielfältigen, öffentlich ausstellen, öffentlich zugänglich
machen, vertreiben oder anderweitig nutzen.
Sofern die Verfasser die Dokumente unter Open-Content-Lizenzen
(insbesondere CC-Lizenzen) zur Verfügung gestellt haben sollten,
gelten abweichend von diesen Nutzungsbedingungen die in der dort
genannten Lizenz gewährten Nutzungsrechte.
Terms of use:
Documents in EconStor may be saved and copied for your personal
and scholarly purposes.
You are not to copy documents for public or commercial purposes, to
exhibit the documents publicly, to make them publicly available on the
internet, or to distribute or otherwise use the documents in public.
If the documents have been made available under an Open Content
Licence (especially Creative Commons Licences), you may exercise
further usage rights as specified in the indicated licence.
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

--- Page 2 ---
Berichte 
Towards  a  New  Monetary  Paradigm:  A  Quantity  Theorem 
of  Disaggregated  Credit,  with  Evidence  from  Japan 
By Richard  A.  Werner,*  Oxford  and  Tokyo** 
I. Introduction 
Thomas  Kuhn's (1962) account  of  the  growth  of  scientific  knowledge 
describes  the  process  of  a  paradigm  shift  as  follows:  the  received  theory 
or approach,  consisting  of  a  set  of  assumptions  and  procedures,  becomes 
unable  to  explain  an  increasing  number  of  'anomalies'.  It  is  initially 
patched  up  by  ad  hoc  assumptions  or  adjustments,  but  as  the  number  of 
inexplicable  facts  rises,  it  is  eventually  replaced  by  a  new  paradigm  that 
explains âs much  as  the  previous  approach  but  in  addition  can  also 
account  for  the  'anomalies'.  Similarly, Lakatos  (1970), who  suggested  the 
concept  of  scientific  research  programmes  that  are  based  on  a  hard  core 
of provisionally  accepted  assumptions,  argues  that  a  research  programme 
will  be  rejected,  if  another  programme  can  explain  everything  its  rival 
* I am  grateful  for  comments  by  Nicholas  Dimsdale,  Tim  Jenkinson, C. H. 
Kwan,  Stephen  Nickell,  Yukio  Noguchi,  Michael Pollitt,  Götz Uebe, Naoyuki 
Yoshino, an  anonymous  referee  and  numerous  economists  in  Tokyo.  Kimiko  Hana-
busa and  Keiko  Sakai  provided  invaluable  research  assistance.  I  am  especially 
indebted  to  John  Baldwin,  Tim  Jenkinson,  Keimei  Kaizuka,  Stephen  Nickell  and 
Hirohiko  Okumura  for  their  kind  backing.  Research  support  has  been  gratefully 
received  over  a  period  of  two  years  from  the  following  institutions:  The  Commis-
sion of  European  Communities,  The  Japan  Foundation,  The  Economic  and  Social 
Research Council  and  The  Citibank  Foundation.  I  am  grateful  for  the  hospitality 
of the  Institute  for  Monetary  and  Economic  Studies  of  the  Bank  of  Japan  and  the 
Institute  for  Fiscal  and  Monetary  Policy  of  the  Ministry  of  Finance.  The  paper  is 
based on  a  draft  presented  at  the  Royal  Economic  Society  Annual  Conference, 
April 1993, the Fifth  PACAP  Finance  Conference  in  Kuala  Lumpur  in  June 1993 
and at  the  Bank  of  Japan,  Institute  for  Monetary  and  Economic  Studies  in  June 
1993. Moreover,  it  was  discussed  in  the  'Economics  Focus'  of  The  Economist, 
13 June 1993. It reflects  my  views  alone. 
** The author  is  Research  Associate  at  the  Institute  of  Economics  and  Statis-
tics,  University  of  Oxford,  Visiting  Lecturer  at  Sophia  University,  Tokyo,  and 
Chief  Economist  at Jardine Fleming  Securities  (Asia),  Tokyo. 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 3 ---
Berichte 277 
can explain,  but  also  those  facts  the  rival  could  not  (see  Backhouse , 
1985, for  a  discussion  of  economic  methodology). 
In the 1980s and early 1990s, three  'anomalies'  have  occurred  in  a 
number  of  countries  which  have  been  difficult  to  reconcile  with  the  gen-
erally  accepted  relationship  of  money,  economic  activity  and  prices 
according  to  the  traditional  monetary  paradigm.  These  are (1) the appar-
ent velocity  decline  and  the  resulting  instability  or  'breakdown'  of  the 
money demand  function  in  several  Anglo-Saxon  countries,  Scandinavia 
and in  Japan; (2) the occurrence  of  significant  asset  price  rises,  often 
dubbed  'bubbles',  especially  in  the  UK,  Scandinavian  countries,  Taiwan, 
Korea  and  Japan;  and (3), the enormous  surge  of  capital  flows  from 
Japan in  the 1980s and their  sudden  collapse  in  the  early 1990s. 
In this  paper  a different  monetary  paradigm  is proposed  that,  despite  its 
simplicity  is  found  to  encompass  the  old  approach  and  at  the  same  time 
accounts for  the anomalies  that  the  old  approach  could  not  explain. 
The paper  is  organised  as follows:  First,  the  three  main  'anomalies'  are 
reviewed,  as  reflected  in  the  recent  literature.  Second,  a  simple  alterna-
tive  macro-economic  model  is  introduced  that  is  in  theory  able  to 
explain  these  'anomalies'.  The  new  approach  suggests (1) to replace  the 
standard  definition  of  the  money  supply  as  deposits  with  a  definition 
based on  credit  creation; (2) that  the  standard  'quantity  theory  of  money' 
is a  special  case  of  a  more  general  disaggregated  quantity  theorem, 
which  distinguishes  between  credit  creation  used  for  'real'  and  'finan-
cial'  transactions;  a  sudden  rise  of  the  latter  may  be  induced  by  banks, 
which  results  in  asset  price  bubbles;  and (3) that  excess  credit  creation 
entering  the  'financial  circulation'  is  likely  to  spill  over  abroad  as  for-
eign investment  and  hence  determine  capital  flows.  Third,  the  relation-
ships postulated  by  the  alternative  model  are  tested  empirically.  Since 
Japan is  the  most  important  country  where  all  'anomalies'  have  occurred 
and indeed  seem to have  been  most  pronounced,  the  Japanese experience 
is drawn  on  for  the  empirical  work.  It  is  found  that  all  three  anomalies 
can be  explained  empirically  by  the  new  approach.  The  paper  ends  by 
discussing  some implications  for  economic  policy  and  future  research. 
II.  Anomalies  of  the standard  macro monetary model 
The received  approach  in  monetary  economics,  centring  on  the  macro-
economic relationship  between  money,  economic  activity  and  prices,  is 
usually  expressed  in  its  most  basic  form  by  the  well-known  equation  of 
exchange, commonly  referred  to  as  the  'quantity  theory  of  money' 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 4 ---
278 Berichte 
(deriving  from  Newcomb, 1885, and Fisher, 1911). Often  in  logarithmic 
form,  it  is  still  the  core  workhorse  of  most  macro-economic  models: 
(1)  MV  = PY 
Ρ is the  price  level  of  goods  and  services  and Y represents  national 
output  or  income. M is the  supply  of  money,  originally  defined  as 'cash'. 
In practice,  money  is  usually  defined  as  an  aggregate  of  private  sector 
assets, largely  deposits.  Often,  several  definitions  of  money,  from  Ml  to 
M4, are used  in  parallel  without  a  priori  theoretical  superiority,  simply 
depending  on  which  suits  the  purposes  of  the  author  best  or  happens  to 
have the  best  empirical  fit.  Velocity  V  is assumed  to  be  constant.  With  a 
stable velocity,  a  dependable  relationship  between  nominal  national 
income PY  and M exists in  the  form  of  a  money  demand  function.  This 
has been  put  to  use  by  central  banks  in  an  attempt  to  control  nominal 
GDP by  money  supply  targeting. 
1. The  anomaly of  the velocity  decline 
The stable  relationship  between M and Ρ or M and PY  proposed  by  the 
equation  of  exchange  more  or  less  appeared  to  hold  until  the 1970s. 
However  it  „increasingly  came  apart  at  the  seams  during  the  course  of 
the 1980s" ( Goodhart , 1989), especially  in  several  Anglo-Saxon  and 
Scandinavian  countries  and  Japan,  where  significant  declines  in  velocity 
were observed.  „Once  viewed  as  a pillar  of  macro-economic  models,  it  is 
now widely  regarded  as  one  of  the  weakest  stones  in  the  foundation" 
( Boughton, 1991). Variable  velocity  is  a  problem  for  traditional  monetary 
models, because  it  renders  the  money  demand  function  'unstable'  and 
hence monetary  policy  difficult  or  impossible  to  implement. 
A large  body  of  literature  has  tried  to  grapple  with  this  'anomaly'  (see 
the surveys  by  Goodhart, 1989, and Goldfeld  and Sichel , 1990). Many 
writers  have  explained  it  by  financial  liberalisation  and  structural 
changes in  the  financial  system  which  are  difficult  to  quantify  (see Bank 
of  Japan , 1988, for  such  an  argument  about  the  Japanese  case).  In 
response, different  definitions  of  money  have  been  used,  usually  getting 
broader  and  culminating  in  a  liquidity-weighted  average  of  deposits,  the 
'divisia  index'  (see,  for  instance,  Bank  of  England, 1996). Others have 
suggested different  measures  of  prices Ρ by incorporating  not  only  goods 
and services,  but  also  asset  prices (Shibuya , 1991). Similarly,  the  so-
called  P*  models  have  tried  to  modify  the  old  theory  (see,  for  instance, 
Deutsche Bundesbank , 1992). Nevertheless,  the  main  problem  remains: 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 5 ---
Berichte 279 
'recurring  bouts  of  instability  in  money  demand' (Goldfeld  and Sichel, 
1990, p. 349). As a  result,  most  researchers  have  abandoned  the  ambition 
of finding  a  generally  applicable  measure  of  the  money  supply  or  a  gen-
eral  explanation  of  the  anomaly.  In  the  UK  and  the  US,  policy  makers 
have shifted  monetary  targeting  until  finally  giving  it  up  altogether. 1 
Today, virtually  all  central  banks  monitor  various  deposit  aggregates  and 
make ad  hoc judgements.  Given  this  state  of  affairs  concerning  a  central 
tenet of  macro-economics,  many  researchers  have  called  for  'an  alterna-
tive  paradigm'  (Spindt, 1987; also Judd  and  Scadding, 1982; Gordon , 
1984; Roley,  1985). 2 
2. The  anomaly of  asset price  bubbles 
Another  important  'anomaly'  is  the  occurrence  of  significant  rises  of 
asset prices  in  several  countries  during  the 1980s. Often  this  has  been 
referred  to  as  asset price  inflation  or  financial  'bubbles'  (see  Muellbauer 
and Murphy, 1989, and Muellbauer, 1992, on the  UK,  Ministry  of 
Finance, 1993, on Japan  and  Shigemi, 1995, for  an  overview  of  selected 
countries).  The  Japanese  case is  particularly  rich  in  evidence,  as  during 
the 1980s Japan witnessed  what  must  rank  as  the  biggest  financial 
'bubble'  on  record.  Stock  and  land  prices  rose  rapidly.  According  to  the 
National  Land  Agency (1990), the consumer  price  index  rose  by  less than 
500% between 1955 and 1989. Land  prices,  however,  increased  by  more 
than 5000% over the  same  period,  the  biggest  rises  taking  place  in  the 
late 1980s. In 1989 it was  calculated  that  the  real  estate  value  of  Metro-
politan  Tokyo  exceeded  the  real  estate  value  of  the  entire  United  States 
of America.  Land  accounted  for 70% of Japan's  total  net  worth,  while  it 
made up  less  than 25 % of US  net  worth.  Noguchi (1990) argued  that  in 
the 1980s land  prices  were  detached  from  their  theoretical  net  present 
value. Asako (1991) found  that  the  Japanese  land  price  'bubble'  was  too 
large to  qualify  as  'rational  bubble'.  Japanese  asset prices  have  therefore 
remained  unexplained  by  economic  fundamentals (French  and  Poterba, 
1991). Some observers  {Werner,  1991, 1993,  1994) had however  begun  to 
point  out  the  importance  of  bank  behaviour  and  credit  creation  in  the 
propagation  of  asset  bubbles.  This  is  disputed  by  others  {Hutchison, 
1994). 
ι The Federal  Reserve 'de-emphasised'  Ml  targeting  in 1982 and abandoned  for-
mal targeting  altogether  in 1987 (see Board  of  Governors  of  the Federal  Reserve 
System, 1988). 
2 Leventakis  and  Brissimis (1991) call  for  a  new  approach  that  can  also  take 
capital  flows  into  consideration. 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 6 ---
280 Berichte 
3. The  anomaly of  Japanese foreign  investment 
The third  major  'anomaly'  of  monetary  economics  in  the 1980s con-
cerns Japanese  capital  outflows,  which  in  the 1980s far  exceeded  the 
record-high  current  account  surplus  and  rendered  Japan  the  biggest  ever 
net long-term  capital  exporter.  This  dramatic  expansion  of  Japanese for-
eign investment  was  followed  by  an  equally  dramatic  collapse:  In 1991, 
Japanese net  capital  exports  suddenly  vanished  and  the  world's  largest 
creditor  nation  turned  into  a  net  importer  of  capital,  despite  a  resurgent 
current  account  surplus.  Although  these  extraordinary  developments 
should  have  attracted  widespread  interest,  surprisingly  little  work  has 
been done  on  Japanese  capital  flows. 3 The  few  existing  studies,  mainly 
based on  interest  rate  differentials  and  exchange  rates,  have  not  been 
very successful  empirically 4 - despite  the  fact  that  none  attempts  to 
tackle  the  collapse  of  foreign  investment  in 1991. 
The only  paper  that  successfully  explains  Japanese  capital  flows  in  the 
1980s and early 1990s has done  so  by  moving  beyond  the  traditional 
portfolio  models  by  incorporating,  more  or  less  ad  hoc,  a  variable  that 
represents  the  Japanese asset price  bubble:  Werner  (1994) found  that  in  a 
Kouri-Porter (1974) type model  of  capital  flows,  price  variables  had  little 
explanatory  power,  while  land-related  credit  creation,  which  was  sus-
pected to  be  fuelling  the  land  price  boom  in  Japan,  was  strongly  signifi-
cant. However,  this  attempt  to  reconcile  traditional  models  with  reality 
has done  so  only  with  great  difficulty:  the  key  variable  of  the  portfolio 
model  is  not  a  price,  but  a  quantity.  Moreover,  this  quantity - land-
related  credit - is not  a  private  sector  asset,  but  a  liability.  This  raises 
questions  about  the  applicability  of  the  portfolio  model  approach  alto-
gether, which  so  far  has  been  the  theoretical  underpinning  of  capital 
flow  studies. 
Werner's finding  resembles  another  'anomaly'  occurring  in  the 1960s, 
when  enormous  US  capital  outflows  seemed  to  buy  up  large  parts  of 
Europe - dubbed le défi  American  at the  time.  Some  observers  had 
argued  that  US  capital  flows  might  be  due  to  excess  credit  creation  in 
the US.  Charles  Kindleberger (1966) relayed  this  suspicion  as follows: 
3 As in  other  studies  on  Japanese foreign  investment,  the  focus  is  on  long-term 
capital  flows,  which  dominated  the  capital  account  and  seem  to  have  been  the 
autonomous  force,  with  short-term  capital  flows  behaving  more  like  a  residual  in 
order  to  balance  the  balance  of  payments  identity  between  the  capital  and  current 
accounts. 
4 Ueda's (1990) regression  has  a  disappointing  fit  and  is  not  subjected  to  the 
standard  tests. 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 7 ---
Berichte 281 
A favourite  European  banking  view  is  that  the  capital  outflow  from  the  USA  is 
the result  of  excessive  credit  creation  in  the  latter.  It  is  sometimes  said  that  the 
USA exports  inflation,  although  it  is  not  explained  how  it  happens  that  the  USA 
has lower  rates  of  increase  in  prices  and  money  supply  than  European  countries. 
(In one  view,  the  USA  has  no  inflation  because  it  exported  it  to  Europe!) ... John 
Exter of the  First  National  City  Bank  of  New  York  has  gone so far  as to say  that  a 
dollar  in  credit  creation  is a dollar  of  capital  outflow  (p. 216). 
However,  Kindleberger  dismissed  such  a  link,  so  that  it  was  never  put 
to a  serious  econometric  test  or  embedded  in  a  theoretical  model. 
III.  Towards  a new paradigm  of disaggregated Credit 
Various  attempts  have  been  made to  amend  the  old  monetary  paradigm 
by adding  ad  hoc assumptions  and  extensions  to  the  standard  framework 
in order  to  account  for  the  three  'anomalies'.  However,  major  problems 
remain.  Thus  a  new  general  approach  that  can  account  for  whatever  the 
old framework  could  explain,  but  also  the  observed  anomalies  should 
receive precedence  over  the  old  framework.  Below  an  attempt  is  made  at 
presenting  such  an approach  in  its  most  basic  form. 
1. 'Money'  is credit 
The tradition  to  define M in (1) as a  deposit  aggregate  is  problematic 
for  several  reasons: 
(a) The  'quantity  theory  of  money'  argues  that  money  is  directly 
related  to  nominal  income  or  output,  and  hence  to  prices.  However,  only 
purchasing  power  that  is  actually  used  for  transactions  can  influence 
nominal  income.  Therefore,  a  quantity  relationship  between  prices  or 
GDP and  money  should  more  precisely  refer  to  that  part  of  the  money 
supply  that  becomes  effective  purchasing  power.  Traditional  money 
supply  measures,  such  as  Ml, M2 or M3 mainly  refer  to  money  that  is 
deposited  with  banks.  At  any  moment  in  time,  this  is  merely  potential , 
not effective  purchasing  power,  since  deposits  need  to  be  withdrawn 
first.  Deposits  do  not  represent  spending  but  the  opposite,  namely  sav-
ings. But  only  spending  can  be expected  to affect  GDP  directly  in (1). 
(b) Defining  money  by  certain  private  sector  assets,  such  as  deposits, 
leads to  the  theoretical  dilemma  that  is  not  clear  where  to  draw  the  line 
among the  wide  spectrum  of  private  assets. Since  none  of  them  is  at  any 
moment  in  time  directly  used  for  purchases,  but  merely  represents  poten-
tial  purchasing  power,  there  is  no  a  priori  theoretical  reason  why  not 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 8 ---
282 Berichte 
increasingly  broader  definitions  of  private  sector  assets  should  be  used 
to define  M.  Time  deposits,  CDs,  bonds  and  perhaps  even  real  estate 
could  be  defined  as  money  in  this  view.  Any  chosen  monetary  aggregate 
is then  susceptible  to  shifts  of  private  sector  assets into  or  out  of  its  defi-
nition  domain.  This  would  suggest  increases  or  reductions  in  the  'money 
supply',  without  any  macro-economic  change  in  the  amount  of  purchas-
ing power  or  transactions  in  the  economy. 5 Consequently,  the  large  litera-
ture  on  the  definition  of  the  money  supply  had  to  remain  arbitrary  and 
inconclusive. 
(c) Early  writers  such  as Hume (1752), Say (1803) and Newcomb (1885) 
that  firmly  established  the  idea  of  the  'quantity  theory'  were  mainly 
thinking  about  an  economy  using  commodity  money,  such  as  gold,  as 
medium  of  exchange.  The  role  of  banks  was  both  smaller  and  less  well 
understood  than  it  is  today.  The  redefinition  of M as bank  deposits  has 
been justified  since  Phillips (1920) by the  assumption  of  a  stable  link 
between  deposits  and  the  monetary  base,  the  familiar  money  multiplier, 
which  seems to  render  unnecessary  the  explicit  modelling  of  the  role  of 
banks. 
However,  since  the  treatment  of  informational  imperfections  in  the 
credit  market  by Stiglitz  and Weiss  (1981), this  view  has  increasingly 
been challenged  by  the  'credit  school'.  A  wealth  of  empirical  evidence 
has been  supportive  of  the  credit  view. 6 Yet,  the  tendency  of  modern 
macro-economics  to  start  with  the  'micro-foundations'  has  hindered  even 
the credit  literature:  On  the  micro-level,  each  bank  appears  to  be  taking 
in deposits  and  then  giving  the  money  out  as  loans.  'Credit  view' 
research thus  treats  banks  merely  as  'financial  intermediaries'.  However, 
for  the  whole  economy  the  causation  is  in  reverse:  banks  create  new  pur-
chasing  power  by  the  extension  of  loans.  Thus  the  literature  has  so  far 
focused on  micro-economic  models  and  has neglected  the  implications  of 
the credit  view  on  macro-economic  relationships,  such  as the  equation  of 
exchange (1). 
This paper  proposes  that  the  problems  of  the  traditional  approach  can 
be solved  by  changing  the  focus  from  deposit  aggregates  to  measures  of 
5 In Japan,  for  instance,  the  traditional  deposit  measure  M2  + CD does  not 
include  private  deposits  with  the  postal  savings  system.  Any  shift  of  private 
deposits from  banks  to  postal  savings  accounts  has  therefore  tended  to  slow  the 
growth  of  the  'money  supply'  defined  by  M2  + CD and  any  reverse  shift  suggested 
faster  'money  supply'  growth - when in  actual  fact  neither  effective  purchasing 
power, nor  economic  transactions,  nor  GDP  was  affected. 
6 See Gertler (1988), Goodhart (1989), Jaffee  and Stiglitz  (1990) and Allsopp  and 
Mayer (1994) for  a  survey. 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 9 ---
Berichte 283 
credit creation. 7 Using total bank credit as the  measure  of  the  'money 
supply' M in equation (1) has the  advantage  that  (a)  credit  always  repre-
sents effective  purchasing  power,  as  no  borrower  will  take  out  a  loan  if 
there is  no  plan  to  use  the  money  for  transactions;  (b)  it  becomes  possi-
ble to  define  effective  purchasing  power  clearly - namely  not  bank  liabil-
ities,  but  bank  assets or  private  sector  liabilities  to  the  bank  sector;  and 
(c) credit  aggregates  are  available  by  economic  sector  and  hence  provide 
us with  additional  information  about  the  direction  of  purchasing  power -
something  deposit  aggregates  cannot  tell  us. 
2. A Dichotomous  Equation  of  Exchange 
Another  fundamental  flaw  of  the  traditional  approach  has  been  that 
equation (1) assumes that  money M is spent  on  transactions  involving 
goods and  services  only,  represented  by  Y.  Clearly,  this  is  doubtful. 
Events of  the 1980s - booming  financial  markets  and  rising  asset prices -
are suggestive  of  the  hypothesis  that,  increasingly,  private  sector  pur-
chasing  power  had  been  used for  financial  transactions  that  had  a  bigger 
impact  on  asset prices  than  on  GDP  growth. 
Fisher  and  Keynes  felt  similarly  about  the  experience  of  the 1920s. 
Keynes (1930) suggested to  divide  deposit-money  flows  into  those  enter-
ing the  'industrial'  circulation  and  those  being  employed  in  the  'finan-
cial'  circulation.  This  division,  however,  was  practically  impossible,  since 
deposits do  not  give  any  indication  about  the  use  to  which  money  is  put 
in the  economy.  However,  adopting  the  credit  view,  and  defining M in (1) 
as total  credit,  such  a  distinction  becomes  possible,  because  data  on  the 
direction  of  loans  by  sector  are  available  in  most  countries.  By  institu-
tional  analysis  and  the  use  of  such  disaggregated  credit  data  it  can  be 
determined,  at  least  approximately,  what  share  of  purchasing  power  is 
primarily  spent  on  'real'  transactions  that  are  part  of  GDP  and  what  part 
is primarily  used  for  financial  transactions. 
7 Proponents  of  the  deposit  view  sometimes  argue  that  it  should  not  matter, 
whether  deposits  or  loans  are  being  analysed,  as both  tend  to  be  equal  in  the  long 
run.  Due  to  the  problem  of  defining  deposit  money,  this  is  often  not  true.  Werner 
(1996b) has  shown  that  in  the  Japanese case, a broad  credit  measure  and  M2  + CD, 
the traditional  deposit  measure,  diverged  greatly  in  the 1990s. While  significant 
growth  of  M2  + CD seemed  to  suggest  an  economic  recovery  in 1995, the credit 
aggregate suggested  a  contraction  of  nominal  GDP  growth - for  the  first  time 
since 1931. The latter  is  what  happened.  Conversely,  while  M2  + CD growth 
remained  stable  from  mid- 1995, the credit  aggregate  suggested  a sudden  economic 
recovery  from  the  fourth  quarter  of 1995, which  again  materialised. 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 10 ---
284 Berichte 
While  a  more  complex  disaggregation  is  possible,  here  the  first  basic 
step of  a dichotomous  credit-money  circulation  is  undertaken: 
C represents  loans  by  deposit-taking  financial  institutions.  C R is 
credit-money  used  for  'real  transactions'  that  are  part  of  GDP,  such  as 
investment  or  consumption,  and  C F is  credit-money  used  for  financial 
transactions,  such  as  speculative  real  estate  purchases,  which  are  not 
part  of  GDP. With  this  distinction  the  classical  quantity  theory  of  money 
can now  be  reformulated  in  a  more  precise  way.  For  the  'real  economy' 
we obtain  the  following  equation  of  exchange: 
With  a  stable  'real'  velocity  of  credit-money,  V R, the stock  of  credit-
money that  enters  the  real  circulation  determines  the  nominal  value  of 
goods and  services.  However,  credit-money  may  also  be  used  to  purchase 
financial  or  real  estate  assets,  without  directly  entering  the  investment-
wage-consumption  cycle  of  the  real  economy  for  a  significant  length  of 
time.  Initially  making  the  simplistic  assumption  that  asset  price  adjust-
ment takes  the  same  form  as  goods price  adjustment,  a  tentative  formu-
lation  of  the  financial  circulation  (which  abstracts  from  other  factors) 
may be: 
(4) C fV f  =  P fA 
With  a  stable  'financial'  velocity  of  credit-money,  the  stock  of  credit-
money that  enters  the  'financial'  circulation  determines  the  nominal 
value  of  assets, P F χ A. 
When credit  creation  is increasingly  channelled  into  the  financial  circu-
lation,  total  C  in (2) rises, while  P R may  not  be  affected  by much.  But  P F 
would  be  pushed  up  according  to  equation (4). In other  words,  in  times 
when  banks  lend  heavily  for  speculative  purposes,  such  as  the  margin 
lending  of  the 1920s in the  US  or  the  property  lending  of  the 1980s in 
Scandinavia  and  Japan,  asset  price  inflation  is  likely  to  occur,  although 
consumer prices  may  hardly  rise. 8 In  a  world  of  perfectly  competitive 
(2) c = C R +  C F 
(3) c*  V R = PR Y 
3. Financial  asset  bubbles 
8 In the  UK  experience,  a  speculative  bubble  in  the  housing  market  was  trig-
gered by  competition  among  banks  to  extend  mortgages  to  individuals.  The  share 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 11 ---
Berichte 285 
financial  markets,  symmetric  information  and  perfect  foresight,  this 
would  not  happen.  However,  in  a  world  similar  to  the  one  we live  in,  this 
is easily  possible:  Banks  tend  to  extend  loans  with  real  or  financial  assets 
as collateral.  Ceteris  paribus,  if  more  purchasing  power  is  newly  created 
that  is  used  for  real  estate  transactions  (i.e.  C F rises),  land  prices  (a  large 
part  of  P F) rise.  Thus  the  appearance  of  asset  price  bubbles  is  not  an 
'anomaly',  but  a  result  that  is  to  be expected,  if  C F rises  significantly. 
The process  that  can  trigger  such  asset price  bubbles  deserves  consid-
eration.  Banks  engage  in  asset  collateralisation,  because  each  bank 
assumes it  cannot  influence  the  price  level  of  the  collateral  asset.  How-
ever, if  a  large  proportion  of  a  country's  banks  engage  in  increased  real 
estate-related  lending,  real  estate  prices  will  be  pushed  up  according  to 
(4). Due to  the  fallacy  of  composition - individual  banks  take  land  prices 
as given,  while  in  effect  all  banks  together  influence  land  prices - there 
is an  externality  in  the  banks'  behaviour.  Land  prices,  although  driven 
up by  the  collective  behaviour  of  banks,  are  seen  as  good  reason  to 
extend  further  land-related  loans  by  individual  banks.  A  land  'bubble'  is 
the result.  The  process  is  triggered  by  changed  bank  behaviour:  When  a 
shock renders  banks  keen  to  expand  their  loan  books,  they  can  do  so by 
focusing  on  collateralised  loans.  As  banks  raise  the  loan/valuation  ratios 
(see Muellbauer ; 1992, on the  UK),  credit  constraints  are  alleviated,  col-
lateral  prices  pushed  up  and  speculative  borrowing  demand  rises.  This 
represents  a  kind  of  'Say's  law  of  credit':  credit  supply  creates  its 
demand via  appreciating  collateral  values. 
In the  UK  and  Scandinavian  countries  changed  bank  behaviour  seems 
to have  been  triggered  by  deregulation  of  banking  controls  and  heigh-
tened competition  between  banks  for  market  share.  It  may  be  equally 
due to  regulation,  however  as  in  Japan.  Moreover,  historic  experience 
suggests that  asset price  'bubbles'  can  be created  using  any  kind  of  asset 
class as  preferred  collateral.  In  the 1980s, banks focused  on  real  estate 
collateralisation.  In  the 1920s in the  US,  they  engaged  in  margin  lending, 
using  stocks  as  collateral.  The  outcome  is  the  same:  the  price  of  the 
collateralised  asset is driven  up,  which  facilitates  further  loan  growth. 
of mortgage  loans  out  of  total  loans  rose  sixfold  from 1980 to 1984 alone (Dr ay son, 
1985). In terms  of  our  model,  excess credit  creation  entered  not  only  the  financial, 
but  also  the  real  circulation,  as  speculators  were  mainly  individuals,  not  firms  (as 
in the  case  of  Scandinavia  and  Japan  in  the 1980s). Their  increased  purchasing 
power  reduced  savings,  boosted  consumption  and  by  entering  the  real  circulation 
pushed  up  consumer  prices.  It  also  produced  a  balance  of  payments  deficit,  as  the 
domestic economy  was  not  able  to  satisfy  the  increased  demand  produced  by 
excess credit  creation. 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 12 ---
286 Berichte 
4. The  velocity 'anomaly ' 
In our  framework  it  is  also  not  surprising  that  researchers  reported 
velocity  declines  in  those  countries  where  asset  bubbles  occurred, 
because both  phenomena  are  due  to  a  disproportionate  rise  in  C F. This 
can easily  be  seen  when  comparing  the  traditional  'quantity  theory  of 
money' velocity  from (1) with  our  disaggregated  credit  velocity,  given  by: 
(5) ν = V R + V F = constant 
(5') y = PrY/Cr  + P FA/C F = constant 
Even if  the  real  velocity  V R remained  constant  over  the 1980s, the velo-
city  of  the  traditional  quantity  theory  of  money,  here  called  V M, would 
give the  erroneous  impression  that  overall  velocity  has  declined,  since  it 
is defined  as: 
(6) V m =  PrY/M. 
With  the  broad  money  supply M approximately  equalling  the  total 
credit  aggregate  C,  redefine (6) as: 
(6') V' m=PrY/C 
and compare  it  with  the  real  velocity  V R : 
(5.1) V* = PrY/CR. 
Keeping (2) in mind,  it  is  clear  that  V' M will  fall  as C F rises  faster  than 
CR and  income.  However,  real  velocity  V R need  not  decline.  The  observed 
decline  is  merely  due  to  the  mis-specification  of (1), which  neglects 
financial  transactions.  The  framework  of  disaggregated  credit  therefore 
also explains  the  velocity  'anomaly'. 
5. Open Economy  Extension 
The basic model  of  disaggregated  credit  can  be extended  for  open  econo-
mies to  take  account  of  international  capital  flows.  Foreign  assets consti-
tute  one component  of  a diversified  asset portfolio.  Since  the  real  circula-
tion  is confined  to the  domestic  real  economy, funds  for  net foreign  invest-
ment (both  'direct'  and  'portfolio'  investment 9) derive  from  the  financial 
circulation.  Similarly  to  the  'diffusion  of  specie'  of  classical  writers,  in  a 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 13 ---
Berichte 287 
world  with  high  capital  mobility,  increased  C F is  unlikely  to  remain 
restricted  to  domestic  financial  transactions,  but  is  likely  to  increase  for-
eign investment  as  well.  In  the  pure  case net capital  outflows  are  directly 
proportional  to excess credit  creation  entering  the financial  circulation: 
(7) AF = kAC F 
This framework  provides  a  theoretical  explanation  of  the  'anomaly'  of 
Japanese capital  flows  in  the 1980s and early 1990s: with  the  rise  of 
credit  creation  in  financial  circulation,  capital  would  be  expected  to  flow 
out of  Japan,  irrespective  of  interest  rate  and  exchange  rate  movements. 
It would  also  support  the 1960s' suspicion  about  US  capital  flows.  It  is 
also in  line  with  earlier  critique  of  the  prevailing  capital  flow  models 
that  place  undue  emphasis  on  stock  adjustment  and  interest  differentials, 
thus neglecting  the  importance  of  flow  adjustment  and  overall  portfolio 
growth  (see Willett  and Forte , 1969; Floyd , 1969; Niehans, 1984; Werner, 
1994). 10 Moreover,  it  is  in  line  with  the  finding  by  Werner  (1994). 
IV. Explaining  the Japanese 'anomalies' empirically 
1. The  Illusion  of  a Velocity  Decline  in  the 1980s 
Using  the  traditional  definition  of  the  velocity  from (1) and (6), with 
PR Y  represented  by  nominal  GDP  and  adopting  the  accepted  practice  of 
defining M as the  broad  deposit  aggregate  M2  + CD (see,  for  instance, 
Bank of  Japan, 1988), we obtain  the  velocity  curve  shown  in  Figure 1 for 
the time  period 1970 to 1996. As can  be  seen, velocity  declined  signifi-
cantly,  especially  in  the  decade  of  the 1980s. This confirms  the  'anomaly' 
of traditional  monetary  theory.  According  to  our  disaggregated  frame-
9 Ruffin  and Rassekh (1986) discuss why  in  an  international  macro-economic 
model, portfolio  and  'direct'  foreign  investment  should  be considered  in  aggregate, 
rather  than  individually.  They  provide  empirical  evidence  for  the  substitutability 
of both  forms  of  long-term  investment  for  the  US  case.  Werner  (1994) provides 
explicit  empirical  evidence  in  support  of  the  substitutability  hypothesis  in  the 
case of 1980s' Japan. 
10 Excess credit  creation  in  the  financial  circulation  expands  the  total  national 
financial  portfolio.  In  this  case  even  with  an  unchanged  share  of  foreign  assets, 
one would  expect  credit  creation  to  result  in  capital  outflows.  In  the  words  of 
Willett  and Forte (1969), p. 247: "Thus  as  portfolios  grow  over  time,  the  absolute 
amount  of  capital  placed  abroad  would  increase  even  though  relative  interest 
incentives  remained  the  same". Thé open economy  model  could  also  be interpreted 
as a  credit-economy  version  of  the  monetary  approach  to  capital  flows  (see  IMF, 
1977; Gordon, 1977; Polak  and  Argy,  1977). 
19 Kredit  und  Kapital  2/1997 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 14 ---
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 15 ---
Berichte 289 
work,  this  is  to  be  expected.  The  first  test  of  the  new  approach  is  there-
fore to  see whether  the  velocity  of  the  real  circulation,  V Rl is  also  declin-
ing, or  whether  it  is  constant.  Since  institutional  analysis  is  used  to iden-
tify  the  proxies  for  C R and  C F, this  also  constitutes  a  test of  the  suitabil-
ity  of  the  chosen  proxies. 
We use  Bank  of  Japan  quarterly  sectoral  bank  loan  data  to  measure 
CR, which  is  defined  from (2) as C R = C - CF. We  therefore  only  need  to 
identify  C F, which  are  those  asset  collateralising  bank  loans  that  have 
been used  for  speculative  asset  transactions.  As  has  been  found  earlier 
(Nikkei  Koshasai  Joho, 1991; Werner,  1991), loans to  the  real  estate 
sector, construction  firms  and  non-bank  financial  institutions  (which 
mainly  served  as conduit  for  real  estate  loans)  represent  such  speculative 
credit  creation  that  was  used  for  real  estate  transactions.  Using  these fig-
ures, we  calculate  the  velocity  V' M of  equation (6') which  corresponds  to 
the traditional  velocity  definition.  Figure 2 shows that  V' M declined  as 
expected,  showing  a  strong  negative  trend.  It  can  be  seen that  the  velo-
city  of  the  real  circulation  V R, i.e.  the  correctly  defined  velocity  of  equa-
tion (5.1), remained  remarkably  stable - and in  fact  stayed  precisely  con-
stant for  the  time  period 1982 (1) to 1991 (1), during  the  time  of  the 
financial  'bubble'.  Testing  for  the  time  trend  (Table 1), we can  see that 
V' M has a strong  and  significant  negative  trend,  while  V R has virtually  no 
time  trend  at  all.  This  supports  the  proposed  framework  of  a  dichoto-
mous credit  circulation  and  indicates  that  the  proxies  used  represent  C F 
and C R fairly  accurately. 
It may  be  concluded  that  the  alleged  velocity  decline  did  not  occur  in 
Japan:  It  was  merely  due  to  the  misleading  definition  of  the  velocity, 
based on  the  traditional  'quantity  theory  of  money',  which  neglects  the 
possibility  of  a  rise  in  'money'  used  for  financial  transactions.  The  real 
circulation  velocity  did  in  fact  not  decline. 
Since V R is  on  average  constant,  equation (3) holds and  C R should  be 
closely correlated  with  national  income  or  GDP.  In  Figure 3 we plot  the 
growth  of  nominal  GDP  (the  real  economy)  against  the  growth  of  the  real 
credit  circulation,  C R. As  can  be  seen,  once  we  have  filtered  out  credit 
for  financial  transactions  C F, we  find  a  stable  one-to-one  relationship 
between  that  'money'  (i.e.  credit  C R) that  enters  the  real  economy  and 
the tangible  economy.  To  test (3) explicitly,  we  take  differences  (the 
entire  model  is  kept  in  differences,  because (a) breaks  in  the  credit  series 
can only  accurately  be  adjusted  when  in  differences,  (b)  capital  flows  in 
equation (7) are a flow  variable  on  which  accurate  levels  are  unavailable, 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 31 ---
Berichte 305 
2. Policy  implications 
The results  imply  for  policy  makers  that  it  is  imperative  to  monitor  the 
allocation  of  credit  and  intervene,  if  credit  creation  for  unproductive, 
especially  speculative  purposes  takes  place  to  a  significant  degree.  Once 
an asset bubble  has  occurred,  excess  credit  creation  must  turn  into  bad 
debt that  tends  to  cripple  the  banking  system  and  create  a  credit 
crunch. 15 The  extent  of  the  problem  and  the  degree  of  fragility  of  the 
Japanese banking  system  can  be  judged  from  Figure 2, indicating  the 
large share  of  speculative  loans  in  banks'  portfolios.  In  this  situation,  a 
long,  drawn-out  recession  is  likely,  as  reduced  credit  in  real  circulation 
tends to  reduce  real  economic  activity - in line  with  equation (3) above. 
In this  case,  the  central  bank  can  stimulate  demand  by  simply  creating 
more money,  as  was  argued  by  Werner  (1994b).  After  a  long  delay  and 
the longest  recession  in  Japan  since  the 1930s, the Bank  of  Japan  finally 
adopted  this  policy  in  April 1995, which  produced  a  sudden,  significant 
recovery  half  a  year later. 
Our findings  suggest  that  central  bank  targeting  of  credit  aggregates  is 
likely  to  be  more  successful  than  traditional  monetary  or  interest  rate 
targeting.  They  also  call  for  comprehensive  disclosure  by  central  banks 
of timely  and  detailed  credit  data. 
3. Further  Research 
The success  of  the  proposed  simple  framework  in  accounting  for  the 
major  anomalies  that  the  traditional  approach  has  not  been  able  to 
explain  is  an  indication  that  further  research  into  a  more  complex  disag-
gregation  of  credit  may  prove  fruitful.  Since  in  this  paper  credit  aggre-
gates were  taken  as  given,  further  research  should  also  explicitly  model 
the bank  behaviour  and  bank  supervision  that  gave  rise  to  those  credit 
aggregates. Finally,  our  approach  casts doubt  on  the  wide-spread  empha-
sis of  traditional  economic  theory  on  prices - mainly  interest  rates.  We 
found  that  key  economic  variables,  namely  nominal  GDP,  asset  prices 
and Japanese  foreign  investment,  could  be  explained  single-handedly 
with  quantity  variables - the quantity  of  disaggregated  credit - while 
interest  rates  and  exchange  rates  dropped  out  in  parsimonious  reduc-
tions  as insignificant. 
is See  Werner  (1991) for  an  early  warning  of  the  impending  Japanese  banking 
crisis  and  recession.  See Werner  (1996) for  empirical  support  of  the  argument  that 
there has been a credit  crunch  in  Japan  in  the 1990s. 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 32 ---
306 Berichte 
In conclusion,  a  new,  more  general  approach  has  been  suggested  that 
encompasses the  traditional  approach  by  rendering  it  merely  a  special 
case. The  framework  for  the  growth  of  scientific  knowledge  proposed  by 
Kuhn and Lakatos suggests a  paradigm  shift  in  this  case.  This  opens  a 
whole  new  avenue  of  promising  work  in  the  new  research  programme  of 
the macro-economic  role  of  credit. 
References 
Allsopp,  Christopher  and  Colin  Mayer  (eds.) (1994), 'Money  and  Banking', 
Oxford  Reviews  of  Economic  Policy,  Vol. 10, No. 4 (Winter). - Asako, K. (1991), 
'The land  price  bubble  Japan', Ricerche  Economiche, XLV, 2-3, pp. 451 -468.  -
Backhouse,  Roger (1985), A History  of  Modern  Economic  Analysis,  Basil  Black-
well:  Oxford. - Bank of  England (1996), Inflation  Report,  Summer  quarter. - Bank 
of  Japan (1988), On  the  recent  behaviour  of  the  money  supply',  Monthly  Review, 
(in Japanese). - Board  of  Governors  of  the Federal  Reserve  System (1988), Federal 
Reserve Bulletin,  pp. 419-29.  -  Boughton, James  M. (1991), 'Long-run  money 
demand in  large  industrial  countries',  IMF  Staff  Papers,  Vol. 38, No. 1 (March), 
pp. 1-32.  -  Deutsche Bundesbank (1992), Monthly  Report,  Vol. 44, No. 8, 
(August). - Drayson,  Stephen  J. (1985), 'The housing  finance  market:  recent 
growth  in  perspective',  Bank  of  England  Quarterly  Bulletin,  vol. 25, no. 1, pp. 80 -
91. - Floyd,  John  E. (1969), 'International  capital  movements  and  monetary  equi-
librium',  American  Economic  Review,  (September). - French,  Kenneth  R.  and 
James M.  Poterba (1991), 'Were Japanese stock  prices  too  high?',  Journal  of  Finan-
cial  Economics, 29, pp. 337 - 363. - Fisher,  Irving (1911), The Purchasing  Power  of 
Money, New  York. - Gertler,  Mark (1988), 'Financial  structure  and  aggregate  eco-
nomic  activity:  An  overview',  Journal  of  Money, Credit,  and  Banking,  Vol. 20, No. 3 
(August). - Goldfeld,  Stephen  M.  and  Daniel  E. Sichel  (1990), 'The Demand  for 
Money',  in: B. M. Friedman  and F. H. Hahn (eds.), Handbook  of  Monetary  Eco-
nomics,  Vol.  I, Elsevier  Science  Publishers, 1990, pp. 300 - 356. - Goodhart, C. A. E. 
(1989), 'The conduct  of  monetary  policy',  Economic  Journal,  vol. 99, (June), 
pp. 293 - 346. - Gordon,  R. J. (1984), 'The short-run  demand  for  money',  Journal  of 
Money, Credit  and  Banking,  vol. 16, pp. 403 - 434. - Hendry,  David  F. (1979), 'Pre-
dictive  failure  and  econometric  modelling  in  macroeconomics:  the  transactions 
demand for  money',  in  R.  Ormerod (ed.), Modelling  the  Economy, Heinemann.  -
Hendry,  David  F. and G. E. Mizon (1978), 'Serial  correlation  as  a convenient  sim-
plification,  not  a  nuisance:  A  comment',  Economic  Journal,  vol. 88, pp. 549 - 563. -
Hume, David (1752), in Hume's  Writings  on  Economics,  E. Rotwein  (ed.), 1955, 
Edinburgh. - Hutchison,  Michael  M. (1994), 'Asset price  fluctuations  in  Japan: 
What  role  for  monetary  policy?',  BoJ  Monetary  and  Economic  Studies,  vol. 12, 
no. 2 (December). - Ito, Takatoshi  and  Tokuo  Iwaisako (1996), 'Explaining  asset 
bubbles  in  Japan',  BoJ  Monetary  and  Economic  Studies,  Vol. 14, No. 1, (July). -
Jaffee,  Dwight  and  Joseph Stiglitz  (1990), 'Credit  Rationing',  in: B. M. Friedman 
and F. H. Hahn (eds.), Handbook  of  Monetary  Economics,  Vol.  II,  Elsevier  Science 
Publishers Β. V., pp. 1838 - 888. - Judd,  J. P. and J. L.  Scadding (1982), 'The search 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 33 ---
Berichte 307 
for  a  stable  money  demand  function:  A  survey  of  the  post- 1973 literature',  Journal 
of Economic  Literature,  vol. 20, pp. 993 - 1023. - Keynes,  John Maynard (1930), A 
Treatise  on  Money,  Vol. 1, Macmillan, London. - Kindleberger,  Charles  P. (1966), 
'Capital  movements  and  international  payments  adjustment', Konjunktur,  Zeit-
schrift  für  angewandte  Konjunkturforschung,  vol.  12,  pt.  1,  10-27; reprinted in 
Charles P.  Kindleberger  (1981), International Money - A Collection  of  Essays, 
pp. 209 -224.  -  Kouri,  Pentti  J.  K.  and  Porter,  Michael  G. (1974), 'International 
capital  flows  and  portfolio  equilibrium',  Journal  of  Political  Economy,  vol. 82, 
May/June,  pp. 443 - 67. -  Kuhn,  Thomas S. (1962), The Structure  of  Scientific 
Revolutions, 2nd edn., 1970. Chicago:  Chicago  University  Press. - Lakatos,  I. 
(1970), Falsification  and  the  methodology  of  scientific  research  programmes.  In: 
Lakatos,  I. and  Musgrave,  A.  (eds.) (1970), Criticism  and  the  Growth  of  Knowl-
edge, Cambridge,  Cambridge  University  Press. - Leventakis,  John  A.  and  Sopho-
cles N.  Brissimis (1991), Instability  of  the  US  money  demand  function',  Journal  of 
Economic  Surveys,  Vol. 2, pp. 131 - 161. - Ministry  of  Finance (1993), The mechan-
ism and  economic  effects  of  asset  price  fluctuations,  A  report  of  the  Research 
Committee,  Institute  of  Fiscal  and  Monetary  Policy,  Tokyo  (April). - Muellbauer, 
John and  A.  Murphy (1989), 'Why  has  the  UK  savings  rate  collapsed?',  mimeo, 
Credit  Suisse  First  Boston,  July. - Muellbauer,  John (1992), 'Anglo-German  differ-
ences in  housing  market  dynamics',  European  Economic  Review,  vol. 36, nos. 2/3, 
April,  pp. 539 - 548. -  National  Land  Agency (1990), Tochihakusho,  Japan  (in 
Japanese). - Newcomb,  S. (1885), Principles  of  Political  Economy. - Niehans,  J. 
(1984), International  Monetary  Economics,  Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  Balti-
more. - Nikkei  Koshasai  Joho (1991), 'Nonbank  kenkyukai  jokokusho - sanko set-
sumei shiryo',  Nihon  Koshasai  Kenkyujo,  No. 772. -  Noguchi,  Yukio (1990), 
'Japan's land  problem',  Japanese  Economic  Studies,  (Summer). - Roley,  V. (1985), 
'Money  demand  predictability',  Journal  of  Money,  Credit  and  Banking,  vol. 17, 
pp. 611-411.  -  Ruffin,  Roy J.  and  Farhad  Rassekh (1986), 'The role  of  foreign 
direct  investment  in  US  capital  outflows',  American  Economic  Review,  pp. 1126-
30. - Shibuya,  Hiroshi (1991), 'Dogakuteki  tsuka  kachi  no  antei  to  kinyu  seisaku -
kinri,  shisan  kakaku,  infre  shihyo',  mimeo,  Riron  Keizai  Gakkai  (Conference  of 
the Japanese  Association  of  Economic  Theory). - Shigemi,  Yosuke (1995), 'Asset 
inflation  in  selected  countries',  BoJ  Monetary  and  Economic  Studies,  Vol. 13, No. 2 
(Dec.). - Spindt,  P.  A. (1987), 'On the  supply  of  the  demand  for  money',  Special 
Studies  Paper,  No. 215, Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System, 
Washington. - Stiglitz,  Joseph and  Andrew  Weiss  (1981), 'Credit  rationing  in  mar-
kets with  imperfect  information',  American  Economic  Review,  vol. 71, 3, (June), 
pp. 393 - 410. - Ueda,  Kazuo (1990), 'Japanese Capital  Outflows',  Journal  of  Bank-
ing and  Finance,  vol. 14. -  Werner,  Richard  A. (1991), 'The Great  Yen  Illusion: 
Japanese foreign  investment  and  the  role  of  land  related  credit  creation',  Oxford 
Applied  Economics  Discussion  Papers,  No. 129, (December). - Werner,  Richard  A. 
(1993), 'Towards  a  quantity  theorem  of  disaggregated  credit  and  international 
capital  flows',  Paper  presented  at  the  Royal  Economic  Society  Annual  Conference 
(April),  an  earlier  version  of  the  present  paper. - Werner,  Richard  A. (1994), 'Japa-
nese foreign  investment  and  the  "land  bubble" ', Review of  International  Econo-
mics, vol. 2, 2, (June), pp. 166 - 178. - Werner,  Richard  A.  (1994b),  Liquidity  Watch, 
Jardine Fleming  Securities  Ltd.,  Tokyo  Branch,  (May). - Werner,  Richard  A. (1996), 
'Has there  been  a  credit  crunch  in  Japan?',  paper  presented  at  the  Fifth  Conven-
tion  of  the  East  Asian  Economic  Association,  Bangkok,  October 1996. -  Werner, 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 34 ---
308 Berichte 
Richard A. (1996b), 'Nichigin Manipulation', Ronso Toyokeizai,  Part  I  (July), 
pp. 64-  73, (in  Japanese). -  Willett,  Thomas D.  and  Francesco  Forte  (1969), Inter-
est rate  policy  and  external  balance',  The  Quarterly  Journal  of  Economics,  vol. 78, 
pp. 242 - 262. 
Summary 
Towards a New Monetary  Paradigm:  A Quantity  Theorem 
of Disaggregated Credit,  with  Evidence from  Japan 
Three important  "anomalies"  that  have  occurred  in  the 1980s in several  coun-
tries,  including  Scandinavia  and  Japan,  have  challenged  the  traditional  monetary 
model: (1) the observed  velocity  decline  and  consequent  instability  of  the  money 
demand  function; (2) significant  asset  price  rises,  often  referred  to  as  "bubbles" 
and (3) enormous  capital  outflows  from  Japan  in  the 1980s and a sudden  reversal 
in the  early 1990s. In this  paper,  a simple  model  is proposed  that  encompasses tra-
ditional  theory  and  manages  to  explain  the  three  main  anomalies.  It  centres  on  a 
"quantity  theory"  framework  of  credit-money  circulation,  which  is  disaggregated 
into  "real"  and  financial  transactions.  Excess  credit  creation  in  the  "financial  cir-
culation"  is  shown  to  be  responsible  for  asset  price  booms,  the  observed  velocity 
decline  and,  in  an  open  economy  extension,  foreign  investment.  Empirical  evi-
dence from  Japan  supports  the  model.  Implications  for  theory,  further  research 
and policy  are  explored. 
Zusammenfassung 
Grundlagen eines neuen monetären Ansatzes: Die  Quantitätstheorie 
des disaggregierten Kredits,  empirisch belegt am Beispiel Japans 
In mehreren  Ländern,  einschließlich  Japans,  wurden  in  den  1980er  Jahren  drei 
signifikante  „Anomalien"  beobachtet,  welche  den  traditionellen  monetären  Ansatz 
in Frage  stellen:  1.  Der  scheinbare  Abfall  der  Geldumlaufgeschwindigkeit  und  die 
sich daraus  ergebende  Instabilität  der  Geldnachfrage;  2.  ungewöhnlich  steile 
Anstiege  von  Vermögenswerten,  oft  als „Bubble" oder Spekulationsblase  bezeich-
net; und  3.  Kapitalausfuhren  von  Japan,  die  in  den  1980er  Jahren  historisch  große 
Proportionen  annahmen,  aber  in  den  frühen  1990er  Jahren  plötzlich  zusammen-
brachen.  In  diesem  Aufsatz  wird  ein  einfaches  Modell  vorgestellt,  das  die  traditio-
nelle  Theorie  als  Spezialfall  beinhaltet  und  gleichzeitig  alle  drei  obigen  „Anoma-
lien"  erklären  kann.  Es  basiert  auf  einer  „Quantitätstheorie"  der  Kreditgeldschöp-
fung,  welche  in  „Finanzzirkulation"  und  „reale  Zirkulation"  disaggregiert  wird. 
Es wird  gezeigt,  daß  überschüssige  Geldschöpfung  in  der  Finanzzirkulation  für 
alle drei  „Anomalien"  verantwortlich  ist.  Das  Modell  wird  durch  empirische  Tests 
am Beispiel  Japans  bestätigt.  Der  Aufsatz  schließt  mit  einer  Diskussion  der 
Bedeutung  dieser  Resultate  für  monetäre  Theorie,  zukünftige  Forschung  und  Wirt-
schaftspolitik. 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10

--- Page 35 ---
Berichte 309 
Résumé 
Vers un nouveau paradigme monétaire: La théorie  quantitative 
du crédit désagrégé à l'exemple empirique  du  Japon 
Trois «anomalies»  importantes  qui  se  sont  produites  dans  les  années 80 dans 
plusieurs  pays,  y  compris  en  Scandinavie  et  au  Japon,  ont  remis  en  question  le 
modèle monétaire  traditionnel: (1) un déclin  de  vitesse,  suivi  d'une  instabilité  de 
la fonction  de  demande  monétaire, (2) des augmentations  importantes  des  prix  des 
actifs - on fait  souvent  allusion  à  des «bulles» («bubbles») - et (3) d'énormes  sor-
ties de  capitaux  du  Japon  dans  les  années 80 et un  revirement  soudain  au  début 
des années 90. Dans cet  article,  on  propose  un  modèle  simple  qui  incorpore  la 
théorie  traditionnelle  et  tente  d'expliquer  les  trois  anomalies  principales.  Il  se 
centre sur  un  modèle  de  «théorie  quantitative»  de  la  circulation  de  la  monnaie-
crédit  qui  est  désagrégée en  «transactions  réelles»  et financières.  Il  est  montré  que 
la création  excessive  de  crédit  dans  la  «circulation  financière»  est  responsable  du 
boum  des  prix  des  actifs,  du  déclin  de  vitesse  observé  et,  dans  une  économie 
ouverte,  des  investissements  étrangers.  L'évidence  empirique  du  Japon  soutient  le 
modèle. On  explore  dans  cet  article  les  implications  théoriques  et  politiques  ainsi 
que celles  au  niveau  de la recherche. 
OPEN ACCESS | Licensed under CC BY 4.0 | https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/
DOI https://doi.org/10.3790/ccm.30.2.276 | Generated on 2023-01-16 13:09:10