
===== PAGE 1 =====
0 
 
  
Liquidity Dependence and the Waxing and Waning of Central Bank 
Balance Sheets1 
 
First Draft: August 2022 
 
This Draft: December 2024 
 
 
 
Viral V Acharya 
(NYU Stern School of Business, CEPR, 
ECGI & NBER) 
 
Rahul S Chauhan 
(University of Chicago Booth School of 
Business) 
 
Raghuram Rajan 
(University of Chicago Booth School of 
Business and NBER) 
Sascha Steffen 
(Frankfurt School of Finance & 
Management) 
 
 
Abstract 
 
When the Federal Reserve (Fed) expanded its balance sheet via quantitative easing  (QE), 
commercial bank s typically financed reserve holdings with uninsured demandable deposits . 
They also issued credit lines to corporations. In the aggregate, these bank- issued claims on 
liquidity did not shrink commensurately when the Fed halted QE and turned to quantitative 
tightening (QT). Consequently, banks that increased liquidity risk exposure – especially small 
and regional banks – became vulnerable to liquidity shocks , necessitating further liquidity 
provision by the Fed. The evidence suggests that the expansion and shrinkage of central bank 
balance sheets has led to liquidity dependence of banks on central banks.   
 
 
JEL: G01, G2, E5 
 
Keywords: Federal Reserve, quantitative easing, large-scale asset purchases, quantitative 
tightening, Fed normalization, demandable deposits, uninsured deposits, lines of credit, 
financial stability, monetary policy.  
                                                 
1 Rajan thanks the Fama-Miller Center at the Booth School and the Hoover Institution for research support. Steffen 
is grateful for financial support from the BMWi and DLR. We are grateful to Gara Afonso, Ryan Banerjee, Richard 
Berner, Wenxin Du, Michael Fleming, Charles Goodhart, Sam Hanson, Florian Heider, Martin Hiti, Raj Iyer, Anil 
Kashyap, Gabriele La Spada, Lorie Logan, Stephan Luck, Thorsten Martin, Thomas Mertens, Emanuel Moench, 
Laura Nicolae, Bill Nelson, Jose-Luis Peydro, Charlie Plosser, Jon Pogach, Rodney Ramacharan, Ricardo Reis, 
Asani Sarkar, Andrei Shleifer, Jeremy Stein, Paul Tucker, Bruce Tuckman, Quentin Vandeweyer, attendees at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas Jackson Hole Economic Symposium in August 2022 on “Reassessing Constraints 
on the Economy and Policy”, and seminar participants at various central banks, conferences, policy think- tanks 
and universities, for helpful comments. An early draft of this paper was named “Liquidity Dependence: Why 
Shrinking Central Bank Balance Sheets is an Uphill Task”.   
===== PAGE 2 =====
1 
 
Should the reduction of the size of a central bank’s balance sheet be an entirely benign process 
“like watching paint dry”, as senior Federal Reserve (Fed) officials put it?2 The central bank will 
either let bonds held as assets on its balance sheet mature or sell them, thus extinguishing reserves, 
its liabilities. While bond prices may have to adjust to draw in sufficient private replacement 
demand, and the swap of bonds for reserves with the private sector may enhance the term premium, 
these possible price adjustments seem natural consequences to the rebalancing of portfolios, 
reversing in part the price effects at the time of expansion of central bank balance sheets.  
Yet, after the Fed embarked on quantitative tightening (QT) in 2017, that is, a shrinkage of 
reserves, financial markets in the United States experienced two episodes of significant liquidity 
stress: in September 2019 and again in March 2020 (by when the Fed had already restarted 
injecting reserves). The former episode – which led to a n intra-day spike in repo market rates – 
was attributed, in part, to significant reserve flows into the Treasury’s Fed account leaving the 
private sector short and, in part, to the uneven distribution of reserves across banks (see Copeland, 
Duffie and Yang (2021) or D’Avernas and Vandeweyer (2021), for instance). Copeland, Duffie 
and Yang (2021) show that reserves hoarding by banks, suggesting an anti cipated shortage of 
reserves manifested in delayed intraday interbank payments, was evident in data at least two weeks 
prior to the eventual repo rate spike. The March 2020 episode, which also spread across days,  is 
attributed to the panic surrounding the COVID -19 outbreak that led to a “dash for cash”, starting 
with corporations – both non-financial and financial – that drew heavily on lines of credit provided 
by commercial banks (Kashyap (2020), Acharya, Engle, Jager  and Steffen (2023), and Acharya, 
Gopal, Jager and Steffen (2024)).  
Once again, in March 2023, after a massive expansion of the Fed’s balance sheet during 
the pandemic and a subsequent modest balance -sheet shrinkage (though accompanied by large 
interest-rate hikes), mid -size and regional US banks  suffered runs or significant outflows of 
uninsured deposits, especially of corporate transaction deposits. Those that failed included Silicon 
Valley Bank [SVB]), Signature Bank and First Republic Bank, but at least 22 banks had runs (see 
Cipriani, Eisenbach, and Kovner (2024)). This episode, which lasted for several weeks,  has been 
largely attributed to inadequate bank risk management and supervis ory laxity (see Barr (2023)) . 
Notwithstanding proximate causes for financial fragility, we ask whether the prior expansion and 
                                                 
2 Former Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen citing Fed President Pat Harker, 
https://www.federalreserve.gov/mediacenter/files/fomcpresconf20170614.pdf 
===== PAGE 3 =====
2 
 
then shrinkage of the Fed’s balance sheet left the private financial sector more vulnerable to such 
liquidity disruptions.  
When the central bank expands its balance sheet during quantitative easing (QE) by buying 
securities, it can either buy them from commercial banks or the “public” such as non-bank financial 
institutions, family offices, and high net-worth individuals. Figure 1 (from Leonard, Martin and 
Potter (2017)) is illustrative. In Panel A, the central bank buys securities from banks. In this case, 
there is no expansion of the commercial bank balance sheet, as the central bank simply swaps 
reserves for securities with the banks.   
In Panel B, the “public”, which typically cannot hold reserves directly, deposit s the 
payment in the commercial bank. Banks now hold reserves and (typically) owe wholesale 
demandable bank deposits to the public.  In this case, bank balance sheets expand one for one with 
the expansion of the central bank balance sheet. The public may spend their deposits on corporate 
issuances, and corporations may in turn save the proceeds in transaction deposit accounts at banks, 
without altering the basic picture. Furthermore, individual banks can subsequently alter their 
capital structure, moving away from wholesale deposits towards other liabilities.  
Similarly, when the central bank shrinks its balance sheet through QT, it could sell 
securities to banks (no change in bank balance sheet size) or to non-banks (leading to a shrinkage 
in bank balance sheets). Given these different mechanisms via which QE and QT can operate, we 
ask what happens to commercial bank balance sheets when the central bank balance sheet first  
waxes then wanes, and whether this could be a source of liquidity stress. We focus on the waxing 
and waning of the Fed balance sheet during the 2008Q4 to 2021Q4 period, but extend the 
descriptive analysis to 2023Q1, and also study the events of March 2023.  
We find that during the QE episodes , commercial banks expand their balance sheets, 
issuing demand deposits, especially uninsured ones which are prone to runs. They also reduce their 
time deposits , and write more corporate credit lines , which are typically drawn down under 
aggregate corporate stress. Thus overall claims on bank liquidity increase. I mportantly, they do 
not fall significantly when QE ended in October 2014 or when the Fed started QT starts in October 
2017.  Instead, Claims t o Potential Liquidity, measured as the ratio of demandable claims 
(uninsured demandable deposits and outstanding credit lines) to liquidity (reserves plus holdings 
of assets eligible for repo transactions at the Fed), increased steeply over these periods. In sum, at 
===== PAGE 4 =====
3 
 
the aggregate level over these episodes, we find commercial bank balance sheets wax but do not 
wane with the waxing and waning of the central bank’s balance sheet. 
To establish more firmly that commercial banks drive this process, we turn to the  cross-
section of banks to ascertain the causal impact of reserves on each bank’s demandable claims. To 
identify plausibly exogenous changes in a given bank’s reserves, we instrument the bank’s reserves 
with the change in aggregate bank reserves multiplied by the bank’s historical reserves “beta” on 
aggregate bank reserves (where a bank’s beta is simply the past four-quarter average of its share 
of aggregate bank reserves).  We find that during the periods of QE, banks that exogenously obtain 
more reserves tend to increase both uninsured demand deposits and issue  credit lines, while 
simultaneously shrinking time deposits. Importantly, banks  do not  reliably shrink uninsured 
demand deposits or credit lines when they lose reserves as  QE ends and QT begins . The panel 
analysis also helps rule out (via time fixed -effects) confounding factors such as GDP growth and 
the level of interest rates which can affect deposit growth, as well as helps control for time-varying 
bank-level characteristics. 
 We then explore bank-level pricing of liquidity. Banks that have a g reater concern about 
liquidity risk should nudge term deposit rate spreads higher so that they can reduce their 
dependence on demand deposits. Therefore, a proxy for the price of liquidity at the bank level is 
the spread between term deposit interest rates and savings deposit interest rates.  We find that 
during periods of QE, banks with greater  (instrumented) reserves tend to reduce the term spread. 
Interestingly again, we find that these behaviors do not reliably reverse in the period between when 
the first sequence of QE ends in October 2014 and when the central bank resumes expanding its 
balance sheet again in September 2019. Put differently, banks that lose reserves post QE and during 
QT do not raise term spreads to raise the maturity of their deposits.  
In other words, when the central bank expands its balance sheet during QE, commercial 
banks also alter their commitments, a simple but important fact that has not been fully appreciated. 
Reserve-rich commercial banks seem to engage in a search for yield both through their liabilities 
(issuing more money- like liabilities  and reducing term liabilities ) and their off -balance sheet 
commitments (issuing more lines of credit)  that are not simpl y reversed or do not shrink fast 
enough in QT relative to the loss of reserves.  
One possibility that might account for the asymmetric bank behavior between QE and QT 
is that banks feel confident they will retain  their access to liquidity during QT if they  substitute 
===== PAGE 5 =====
4 
 
lost reserves with bonds that are eligible collateral for repo transactions. Of course, to the extent 
that repos must be conducted with other banks, banks will all be reliant on a diminishing pool of 
ultimate liquidity, that is, reserves. So, in a situation where every bank wants to transform repo-
eligible financial securities into reserves (a “dash for cash”), there will be too little to satisfy all  
and banks with more demandable claims will experience financial fragility, effectively resulting 
in an aggregate bank run. If inter -bank markets cease working due to hoarding by well -managed 
surplus banks (see Acharya and Rajan (2024), Copeland, Duffie, and Yang (2024)), while the fear 
of stigma prevents banks from accessing reserves from Fed windows, then the dash for cash could 
lead to spikes in collateralized borrowing rates in the repo markets, and if unaddressed by Fed 
intervention, fire sales and distress.
3   
Indeed, it turns out that  there is considerable cross- sectional dispersion in  liquidity risk 
exposure – as proxied for by the ratio of uninsured demand deposits and undrawn lines of credit 
to reserves and repo -eligible securities – across banks . Specifically, we  document that the 
ratcheting-up of liquidity risk exposure between 2010 and 2021 is driven especially by small banks 
not subject to liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) requirement. In contrast, the largest banks, subject to 
the most stringent LCR requirement, show a significant decline in exposure since 20 12.  
Furthermore, we find that the distribution of this ratio across banks (largely driven by small banks) 
steadily shifts to the right, i.e., the ratio moves to higher levels, through the different episodes of 
QE, continuing its momentum post  QE and during pre -pandemic QT, and ends up with a 
significantly fatter right tail of banks  by the time of COVID -19’s onset. Liquidity exposure  
becomes concentrated. 
Finally, we study two episodes of financial fragility, the first around the  COVID-19 
outbreak in March 2020 and the  second around the bank runs and uninsured deposit outflows in 
March 2023. Both followed episodes of QT, with the second also preceded by rate hikes.4 In both 
                                                 
3 Note that there is often, at least in early stages of financial stress, stigma associated with borrowing from the Fed at 
the discount window. The Standing Repo Facility (SRF), allowing financial institutions to borrow additional 
reserves from the Fed, was not operational before 2021, and the fact that the Fed had to create a new lending facility 
in 2023 suggests the SRF was not fully effective. 
4 We do not empirically analyze the repo rate spike of September 2019 given its short-lived nature and lack of 
publicly available data at daily frequency. While the accumulation of reserves in the Treasury account and the 
uneven distribution of remaining reserves across banks were possibly the proximate causes of the Treasury repo rate 
spike in September 2019, Fed studies earlier in that year suggested the banking system had ample reserves (see 
Logan (2019)). Our evidence suggests that the shrinkage of aggregate reserves without a commensurate decline in 
aggregate claims to liquidity was a deeper catalyst. At a minimum, by leaving the system vulnerable, it likely 
amplified other channels (also see Copeland et al. (2024)). 
===== PAGE 6 =====
5 
 
cases, smaller banks with more liquidity exposure became more dependent on emergency liquidity 
assistance from the Fed or Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs).  
In sum, we have three key findings. QE leads to more uninsured demandable deposits , 
undrawn lines of credit, and fewer time deposits  in the banks that accrue reserves. Second, in the 
time-series, as QE stops and QT gets under way, these uninsured demand deposits and credit lines 
do not necessarily shrink with reserves in a commensurate manner. In the cross-section of banks, 
claims on reserves do not remain where the reserves ar e, which can exacerbate liquidity stress if 
shocks materialize and surplus banks are unwilling to lend reserves , creating ex -post liquidity 
dependence of illiquid banks on the central bank. Indeed, and third, we find evidence of such 
dependence for liquidity-stretched smaller banks in two episodes of financial fragility. 
The shortage of reserves relative to claims can never cause a liquidity problem if the Fed 
will always lend reserves at short notice to any degree desired – that is, it operates an infinitely 
elastic balance sheet  – and banks have no qualms borrowing. If interbank markets for reserves 
have ceased operating, an additional requirement is that the Fed should lend to specific liquidity-
stressed entities, though unintended gaps or accidents could emerge. Furthermore, if the system is 
short i n aggregate, the Fed may have to supply reserves on a more permanent basis to avoid 
frequent illiquidity episodes. One cost of such intervention is that the commercial banking system 
might issue yet more claims, and the central bank finds may find it hard to wean the system ’s 
dependence even if the economy’s macro-economic priorities would require a different path.  
 The rest of the paper is as follows. Section 2 introduces the data we use.  Section 3 presents 
aggregate time-series analysis linking quantities of reserves, deposits (and their various types) and 
credit lines. Section 4 then further analyzes these patterns using bank-level panel data to establish 
a plausibly causal effect of QE on these commercial banking quantities . Section 5 documents the 
ratcheting-up of bank-specific liquidity risk, its drivers, and ensuing financial fragility. Section 6 
discusses implications for policy. Section 7 concludes with some directions for future research. 
2. Data 
We now describe the data sets we employ for our primary tests on how QE and QT affect 
commercial bank balance sheets (Sections 3 and 4) . Data employed in bank fragility tests are 
described along with the tests in Section 5. Des criptive summary statistics of all variables of 
interest are in the Online Appendix Table A1. 
===== PAGE 7 =====
6 
 
2.1. Time-series 
From the Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED) database, we collect aggregate data on central 
bank reserves with the banking system (H6 release) and bank deposits (H6 and H8 release), as well 
as the time-series of outstanding off-balance-sheet credit lines to corporations (FDIC-sourced) and 
the U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP).5 We use monthly data for aggregate time-series figures 
and quarterly data for regression tables in order to be consistent with the frequency of FDIC call 
reports. We focus on the period of 2008Q4- 2021Q4 for the aggregate regression analysis of QE 
and QT. However, in some of our descriptive charts, we also use earlier data to see trends prior to 
QE, and use data from 2022Q1 to 2023Q4 to analyze recent bank fragility.  
2.2. Panel with Individual Banks  
We employ the following cross-section and time-series data for US banks during 2008Q4-2021Q4. 
Bank-level reserves: Reserves are calculated as cash and balances due to a bank from the Federal 
Reserve Banks, based on the bank balance -sheet data from FDIC Call Reports, specifically  item 
RCFD0090, or as item RCON0090 if the former is missing.  
Bank-level deposits: We use FDIC’s Summary of Deposits – Branch Office Deposits data to 
obtain branch-level deposits to construct our deposit instrument. For each bank in the Call Reports 
data, we use the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council’s (FFIEC) relationships table 
to link the bank to the Bank Holding Company (BHC), supplemented with RSSDHCR mapping 
of the Summary of Deposits. While the analysis of bank reserves, deposits, off-balance sheet 
unused credit lines  and deposit rates is at the depository level in the panel  tests, the analysis of 
credit line originations is at the BHC level.  
An important part of our analysis focuses on uninsured demandable deposits of banks. 
Using FDIC Call Reports data, we first break down deposits int o their uninsured-demandable, 
uninsured-time, insured-demandable, and insured-time components. Total Uninsured Deposits are 
computed as the sum of total foreign deposits and domestic deposit accounts with balances over 
$100,000 before 2006Q1, non-retirement accounts with balances above $100,000 and retirement 
accounts with balances above $100,000 for the time period of 2006Q1- 2009Q2, and all deposits 
                                                 
5 Fed reserves can be held (i) in the Government Treasury Account and (ii) by non-banks via the Reverse Repo Facility. 
For instance, in August 2022, the Fed’s liabilities of around $9 trillion corresponded to rou ghly $4 trillion reserves 
with the banking system, $1 trillion in the U.S. Government Treasury Account or with agencies and market utilities, 
$2 trillion in reverse repos of non- banks (which was small before the pandemic QE), and $2 trillion currency -in-
circulation. Given our focus on the banking system, we will refer to the reserves it holds as “aggregate reserves”.  
===== PAGE 8 =====
7 
 
over $250,000 after 200 9Q2 (reflecting the temporary increase in deposit insurance limit  later 
made permanent), reported in schedule RC-O.6 Uninsured Time Deposits are time deposits above 
$100,000 till 2010Q 1 and above $250,000 after 2010Q1 plus foreign interest bearing deposits .7 
Insured Time Deposits and Total Insured Deposits are time deposits and total deposits which fall 
below the corresponding deposit insurance limits. We then compute Uninsured Demandable 
Deposits as the difference between Total Uninsured Deposits and Uninsured Time Deposits, and 
by extension, Insured Demandable Deposits as the difference between Total Insured and Insured 
Time Deposits. 8 Given this construction, demandable deposits strictly speaking are “non-time” 
deposits, and include savings and money market deposits in addition to transaction accounts, which 
is appropriate given they entail immediacy. 9 Non-interest bearing foreign deposits will count as 
uninsured demand deposits.10  
We obtain deposit rate data from S&P Global’s RateWatch, including weekly branch-level 
deposit rate data of different product types, along with product size and maturity information. For 
our deposit rate analysis, we use the average 3-month Certificate of Deposit (CD), 12-month CD, 
18-month CD and 24-month CD rates, and Savings account rates, aggregated to the bank- quarter 
level and focus on the time period of 2008Q4-2021Q4.   
Bank-level credit lines issuance: We obtain data on the origination of credit lines by U.S. non-
financial firms from Refinitiv LoanConnector . These data include the name of the company 
contracting the l ine as well as the  relevant contract terms . LoanConnector also includes the 
company credit rating at line origination.  To obtain lender information, we use the Schwert (2018) 
link-file to map lenders in LoanConnector to the ultimate parent level (extending the file to the 
                                                 
6 Note that Call Reports fields RCONF-051 & 052 reflect this change only in 2009Q2, while the deposit insurance 
limits were raised from $100,000 to $250,000 in October 2008 (2008Q4). 
7 While deposit insurance limit was raised in 2008Q4, the Call Reports items RCON2604 (Time Deposits Accounts 
with balance over $100,000) changed to RCONJ473 (Time Deposits Accounts with balances between $100-250k) 
and RCONJ474 (Time Deposits Accounts with balances over $250k) only in 2010Q1, in schedule RC-E. 
8 We do not adjust for the FDIC's Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) Program's implicit insurance of all non-
interest-bearing transaction accounts of balances over $250,000 when we compute Uninsured Domestic Deposits. 
Hence, Uninsured Demandable Deposits include temporarily insured transaction deposits and Insured Demandable 
Deposits do not include those deposits. The Program operated during October 14, 2008 to December 31, 2010, and 
was then replaced with a similar program (by the Dodd Frank Act) that expired on December 31, 2012. 
9 Note also that the construction of uninsured demandable deposit measures is based on other reported fields in Call 
Reports. It leads to some bank-quarters having negative amounts for these deposits. We truncate these negative 
amounts to zero in our analysis, but also verify that all our results are robust to starting the analysis in 2010 by when 
such negative amounts are rare (given the overall surge in uninsured deposits starting in 2009).   
10 Note that we do not use item RCON5597 which records "Estimated Amount of Uninsured Deposits in Domestic 
Offices of the Bank" to compute total uninsured deposits as it is missing for 65% of bank-quarter observations of 
our sample. Where available, it does not differ materially from our calculations of uninsured deposits.  
===== PAGE 9 =====
8 
 
end of 2021) and obtain their respective CR SP/Compustat identifier (GVKEY). Finally, we use 
the GVKEY-RSSD mapping provided by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to obtain call 
report identifiers (RSSD) for BHCs. While we employ credit lines data starting in 2008Q4, due to 
a recent change in data vendor and associated data format changes we have not yet been able to 
update the data past 2021Q4.   
 3. The Aggregate Time-series:  Bank reserves, deposits and credit lines 
3.1. Descriptive evidence 
In Figure 2, we plot reserves, deposits, and undrawn credit lines aggregated over all US 
commercial banks using data from the Federal Reserve’s Flow of Funds for the period 2008Q4 to 
2021Q4. In Panel A, we plot them a s percentages of GDP. The vertical lines correspond to the 
beginning of the different Federal Reserve QE and QT  programs:  (1) Nov 2008 (QE I), (2) Nov 
2010 (QE II), (3) Nov 2012 (QE III), (4) Oct 2014 (QE halted without actively reducing balance 
sheet size), (5) October 2017 (QT or active balance sheet reduction), (6) Sept 2019 (Repo-market 
“spike” and subsequent reserve expansion , followed by Pandemic-induced QE starting March 
2020, which for simplicity we collectively refer to as “Pandemic QE”), and (7) March 2022, Fed 
rate hikes (with pandemic QT starting in June 2022).  
Central bank reserves expanded from the start of QE I in November 2008 to the end of QE 
III in Sep 2014 from less than 5% of GDP to more than 15% of GDP. There was some stabilization, 
even decline, in reserves when each phase of QE ended and before the next phase began. At the 
same time, bank deposits grew from below 50% to over 60% of GDP, again with some stabilization 
when each phase of QE ended and before the next one began. Undrawn outstanding credit line s 
decreased initially, from $2.37 trillion in Q4 2007 to $1.89 trillion in Q4 2011, largely due to 
concerted drawdowns by corporations during and following the global financial crisis (see 
Ivashina and Scharfstein (2010) and Acharya and Mora (2015)). However, they too increased from 
November 2010 (the start of the QE  II) from about 12% to over 15% of GDP  by Sep 2014. 
Importantly, while reserves dropped by more than half between the end of QE in Oct 2014 and the 
end of the first QT in September 2019, both deposits as well as credit lines remained remarkably 
flat. This highlights the pattern that neither of these claims on bank liquidity reversed their QE  I-
III increase when the central bank balance sheet shrank.  
When reserves increased from about 7% to mor e than 17% of GDP during the pandemic 
QE period, bank deposits jumped again from 60% to almost 80% of GDP  and credit lines also 
===== PAGE 10 =====
9 
 
increased from 15% to over 17% of GDP. From 2022, however, reserves, deposits and outstanding 
credit lines all started declining sharply (relative to the GDP) once the Fed started raising rates, 
ended QE and switched to QT. Banks first lost deposits to money market funds, perhaps reflecting 
the deposits channel of monetary policy wherein banks do not raise deposit rates commensurate 
with Fed rate hikes in order to squeeze sticky depositors (Drechsler, Savov and Schnabl (2017)), 
but from March 2023, depositors started fleeing mid-size and regional banks (see Caglio, Dlugosz, 
and Rezende (2023)). 
Next, we split deposits into demand deposits and time deposits in Panel B.11 Overall, the 
figure suggests a positive correlation between demand deposits and reserves as well as a negative 
correlation between time deposits and reserves during the QE I-III periods as well as the pandemic 
QE period. While reserves relative to GDP almost quadrupled over the 2009 to 2021 period, time 
deposits declined from about 23.4% of GDP to just about 6.3% of GDP. Demand deposits (both 
uninsured and insured) , on the other hand, increased from 40% to about 80% of GDP over the 
same period. This  shift from t ime to demand deposits may be because the money premium 
associated with demand deposits made them cheaper to issue than time deposits, which improves 
accounting profitability (ROE) – effectively, a search for yield on the liability side. Interestingly, 
the decline in time deposits flattens out whenever the Fed ceases QE, suggesting that QE tends to 
push banks to increase the “demandability” of bank claims.  
Focusing on uninsured and insured demandable deposits separately, we observe that while 
both rose in a similar way during QE I -III, and also stayed flat post QE III, uninsured deposits , 
which a re likely held by non- bank institutions, grew and fell faster respectively during the 
pandemic QE and QT. Panel C, which excludes foreign deposits, shows that while the share of 
US-based (domestic) insured demandable deposits in overall (domestic) deposits  during 2001Q1 
to 2021Q4 remained stable over the entire period around 40%, the share of uninsured demandable 
deposits, after remaining relatively flat at 18% between 2001 and 2009, rose sharply from then to 
peak at 47% during 2021.
12 Thus, the bulk of the effects of QE are seen in the rise in the quantum 
and share of uninsured demand deposits (and the fall in time deposits).   
                                                 
11 Note that due to the aforementioned discrepancy in the dates on which Call Reports reflect the change in the 
definition of Total Uninsured Deposits (2009Q2) and Uninsured Time Deposits (2010Q1), we see a temporary blip 
up in Insured Demandable Deposits and a blip down in Uninsured Demandable Deposits during 2009Q2-2010Q1. 
Also, the sudden rise in Insured Time Deposits (and the corresponding fall in Uninsured Time Deposits) in 2010Q1 
reflects the change in definition in Call Reports. 
12 The patterns in Panel C are robust to including foreign deposits. 
===== PAGE 11 =====
10 
 
To see that this does not reflect a general increase in household demand for deposits (which 
would typically be for insured deposits), we plot in Panel D the aggregate ratio of US household 
deposits to financial assets from the Flow of Funds for the period Oct 1987- Dec 2023. While the 
ratio declined dramatically from 22.5% in Oct 1987 to 10% at beginning of 2000, and did rise to 
15% by the collapse of Lehman Brothers, it has remained relatively stable thereafter in the 12.5% 
to 15% range during the 2008Q4 to 2021Q4 period.  T ogether, Panels C and D suggest a turning 
point in the growth of uninsured demandable deposits around the Fed’s embarking on QE , and 
indicate that this turning point is not coincident with an increase in household deposits share  or 
with a rise in insured demandable deposit share of overall deposits.  
In the rest of this section, we turn to time-series regressions on aggregate quantities of bank 
deposits, credit lines and reserves,  and offer econometric support for the descriptive patterns we 
have identified.   
3.2. Time-series Regressions: Quantities of bank reserves, deposits and credit lines 
We estimate the following ordinary least squares (OLS) regression: 
ΔYt = αΔXt + βXt−4 + εt,                                       (1) 
where ΔYt = Yt −   Yt−4 is either the change in Ln(Deposits) or Ln(Credit Lines) or the change in 
the Deposits or Credit Lines, with the change taken over the past year , i.e., four quarters back, to 
control for any seasonality, and ΔXt = Xt − Xt−4 is respectively either the change in Ln(Reserves) 
or the change in R eserves. As in the descriptive analysis, we also split deposits into demand and 
time deposits in some estimations. Standard errors reported in parentheses  are adjusted for 
autocorrelation in the residuals up to 4 quarters. We include the four-quarter lag of Ln(Reserves) 
or Reserves to allow for a lagged impact of reserves.  
In Table 1, we present estimates of model (1) for the 2008Q4 to 2021Q4 period. Columns 
(1) to (4) respectively use quarterly changes in the natural logarithm of Deposits, Demand 
Deposits, Time Deposits, and (undrawn) Credit Lines over the same quarter in the previous year  
as the dependent variable. The results suggest that the growth in Reserves is positively correlated 
with the growth in Deposits, Demand Deposits, as well as Credit Lines, and negatively correlated 
with the growth in Time Deposits. Our point estimates suggest that an increase in Reserves by 10% 
over the last 12 months is associated with an increase in Deposits of about 1.4%, Demand Deposits 
of 1.9%, and Credit Lines of 0.8%, but with a reduction in Time Deposits of 3.6%, consistent with 
demand and time deposits moving in opposite directions to reserves as we saw in Panel B of Figure 
===== PAGE 12 =====
11 
 
2. Importantly, this suggests that banks do not just issue deposits to finance reserves, but they shift 
toward issuing more demandable claims as reserves increase.   
The correlation with lagged Ln(Reserves) is statistically significant, relatively smaller than 
the coefficient on changes in reserves for overall deposits (and statistically insignificant for 
demand and time deposits) but relatively larger in magnitude for credit lines , suggesting that 
changes in reserves take some time to translate into additional deposits and especially credit lines 
(or alternatively, that there is some momentum from past changes in reserves). With the exception 
of the credit lines coefficient, our estimates are robust to excluding this lagged variable (see Online 
Appendix Table A2) 
In columns (5) to (8), we use arithmetic changes in Deposits or Credit Lines (instead of log 
changes) as dependent variables, since the coefficients are easier to interpret . The point estimate 
in column (5) suggests that for the aggregate banking system , deposit liabilities change in levels 
almost one for one with reserves. S uch a relationship would arise if on the margin banks finance 
an expansion in their holdings of reserves largely through deposits. Equivalently, it is consistent 
with the Fed injecting reserves by buying assets from non- banks, who then deposit the proceeds 
with b anks. Of course, this requires that after receiving deposits banks do not rebalance their 
capital structure away from deposits. Since the new assets (reserves) have zero risk weights, banks 
have no need to issue additional capital if the leverage r atio does not bind, and since the asset  is 
very liquid, they have no need to rebalance assets  to meet liquidity ratios . Columns (6) and (7) 
imply that demand deposits increase substantially more than one for one with reserves, because 
time deposits in fact shrink . Column (8) indicates changes in reserves are positively correlated 
with changes in outstanding credit lines. 
In Table 2, we break the dependent variable, namely deposits, into insured and uninsured. 
Once again, columns (1)-(4) has the variables in log changes and columns (5)-(8) are in arithmetic 
changes. While uninsured deposits are statistically related to reserves ( columns (1) and (5)), 
insured deposits are not (columns (2) and (6)). Within demand deposits, the coefficient estimates 
for uninsured demandable deposits (see columns (3) and (7)) is 15-60% greater than that of insured 
demandable deposits (see columns (4) and (8)). These results are overall in line with the descriptive 
patterns seen in Figure 2, Panel B.   
 Collectively, these correlations  suggest that an increase in central bank reserves is 
associated with an increase in uninsured, especially demandable,  deposits as well as credit lines . 
===== PAGE 13 =====
12 
 
This is suggestive of banks trying to minimize the cost of holding reserves by financing with 
uninsured demandable deposits, and earning fe es by issuing demandable claims such as credit 
lines. Of course, this search for yield by issuing liquidity claims may be quite safe if the bank has 
sufficient reserves to meet claims, or if aggregate liquidity is plentiful. It can turn awry if not. 
Aggregate time-series analysis is not conducive to inference about the c ausal impact of 
reserves on variables of interest, especially when we examine different episodes of central bank 
activity, since we run into issues of statistical power given the small number of observations within 
each episode. Time-series analysis also cannot adequately rule out confounding effects from 
economy-wide factors such as the level of economic activity  and interest rates, as well as the 
consequent change in household financial assets, which directly affect deposit creation and deposit 
demand in the economy.  We, therefore, turn to panel tests with a cross-section of banks.   
4. The Panel Tests: Bank reserves, deposits and credit lines 
4.1. Central bank reserves and bank choices (quantities and rates). 
In our panel tests, we focus on individual banks and how their reserve holdings affect their 
uninsured demandable deposits and credit lines (which create liquidity risk ), as well as time 
deposits (which help us understa nd bank deposit maturity  choice).  We first describe the 
methodology underlying our panel tests. 
4.2. Methodology 
While the aggregate stock of bank reserves is set by the central bank and therefore is likely 
to be  exogenous to total bank deposits, the stock of reserves at an individual bank could be 
endogenous to that bank’s deposit funding. For instance, there could be reverse causality from 
deposits to reserves. Conversely, a bank that has had adverse performance may experience weaker 
deposit inflows (or even deposit outflows) and a relative fall in reserves but may also try to attract 
reserves to meet withdrawals. Banks may also be subject to liquidity regulations.  Since such 
regulations are relaxed if a bank chooses time deposits over demand deposits, liquidity-constrained 
banks may seek reserves at the same time as they seek time deposits – inducing a positive 
correlation we need to correct for. Also, large banks that have access to equity and bond markets 
may raise a part of their funding from non- deposit sources, which would increase reserves but 
simultaneously not increase deposits. 
===== PAGE 14 =====
13 
 
To allay such endogeneity concerns which can bias the estimated relationships of interest, 
we employ a 2-stage least squares (2-SLS) specification, instrumenting the change in bank-level 
reserves in the first stag e to obtain the impact of a  plausibly exogenous change in bank- level 
reserves on bank-level variables of interest. We employ a Reserve Instrument, 1R
itz , computed as 
the product of the most recent change in aggregate bank reserves and the bank’s reserve share: 
ln �
𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴 𝑏𝑏𝐴𝐴𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 𝐴𝐴 𝐴𝐴 𝑟𝑟𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝑟𝑟𝐴𝐴 𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡
𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴 𝑏𝑏𝐴𝐴𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 𝐴𝐴 𝐴𝐴 𝑟𝑟𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝑟𝑟𝐴𝐴 𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡−1
� ×
1
4 ∑ 𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵 𝑖𝑖′𝑠𝑠 𝑠𝑠ℎ 𝐵𝐵𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎  𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝐵𝐵 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝐵𝐵𝑎𝑎 𝑎𝑎 𝑏𝑏 𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝐴𝐴−𝑏𝑏
4
𝑏𝑏=1 .  (3a)        
The first component, the growth in aggregate banking system  reserves, is plausibly not 
driven by an individual bank’s circumstances, but in the aggregate by the Fed’s monetary stance. 
Given the nature of Fed’s QE operations, this component is large in magnitude at the inception of 
QE I and pandemic QE  relative to other quarters . T his variability lends exactly the kind of 
statistical and economic power to the instrument that an  econometrician ideally wishes for. 
However, the power of the instrument is weaker during post QE III and QT period as Fed did not 
dramatically shrink reserves in a particular quarter, something we will have to contend with in the 
results to follow.13  
Turning to the second component, banks will differ in their propensity to attract reserves. 
Some banks will be at the center of networks  of customers with surplus deposits, which  will 
position them best to attract reserves. In particular d uring QE, non- banks may tender financial 
assets to the central bank , placing the associated deposits received in payment with their 
relationship bank or prime broker. Given they are likely to attract reserves because of their activity, 
network centricity, or relationships, banks with a more “reserve-intensive” past are likely to attract 
more incremental reserves today if the central bank expands its aggregate stock. These more 
persistent underlying factors would cause a bank  to have a pre-determined higher reserve share 
but because it can rebalance its balance sheet, this need not  affect its structure of liquidity claims 
other than through the deliberate choices it makes. For instance, Kashyap, Rajan, and Stein (2002) 
                                                 
13 An alternate instrument uses the growth in the overall Fed balance sheet as the first component, while retaining the 
second component: 
 ln �
𝐹𝐹𝐴𝐴 𝐹𝐹 𝐴𝐴 𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡
𝐹𝐹𝐴𝐴 𝐹𝐹  𝐴𝐴 𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡−1
� ×
1
4 ∑ 𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵 𝑖𝑖′𝑠𝑠 𝑠𝑠ℎ𝐵𝐵𝑎𝑎 𝑎𝑎  𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝐵𝐵𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝐵𝐵𝑎𝑎 𝑎𝑎 𝑏𝑏 𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵 𝑎𝑎 𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑟𝑟 𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝐴𝐴−𝑏𝑏
4
𝑏𝑏=1   .        (3b) 
The rationale for using the overall balance-sheet growth of the Fed rather than the growth in aggregate bank reserves 
might be that aggregate banking reserves are a residual from the Fed’s choice of balance sheet size and the economy’s 
demand for cash in circulation (and in recent years, the overnight reverse repo facility for money market funds). 
However, bank “reserve betas” with respect to this alternate instrument do not necessarily add up to one in the cross-
section. Our results are robust to employing both instruments together and separately (Online Appendix B).  
 
===== PAGE 15 =====
14 
 
argue that banks can best utilize a stock of reserves by writing both demandable deposit claims as 
well as credit lines against it – maximizing the effective yield of the reserves.   
With this rationale, the second component of the instrument, Bank i’s lagged s hare of 
aggregate bank reserves, can be interpreted as a bank’s “reserve beta,” which is calculated by 
dividing the bank-level reserves by aggregate bank reserves.  We average this share over the past 
4 quarters to deal with possible seasonality or noise in bank-level reserves, as well as to reduce the 
impact of any endogenous reserve adjustment by the bank (assuming that such adjustment is 
transitory and uncorrelated or weakly correlated from one quarter to the next). The quarterly share 
of a bank in aggregate bank reserves is persistent with a Kendall -bias adjusted autocorrelation of 
0.74 on average across banks (standard deviation across banks being 1.50).       
4.3. Impact of reserves on quantities of deposits  
We then estimate a 2-stage least square specification.  The first-stage is estimated as  
∆𝐿𝐿
𝐵𝐵(𝑅𝑅𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠
𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠)𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴= 𝛾𝛾1
1R
itz +𝛾𝛾3𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵( 𝑅𝑅𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−5) + 𝜇𝜇𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−1 + 𝛿𝛿𝐴𝐴+  𝜗𝜗𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴               (4) 
𝑤𝑤ℎ
𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 
∆𝒀𝒀𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴=  𝑌𝑌𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−  𝑌𝑌𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−4, and 𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−1 represents bank controls lagged by one quarter  which are 
bank size (measured as Ln(Assets) ), profitability (Net Income -to-Assets), and capitalization 
(Equity-to-Assets), as well as a  Primary Dealer indicator that identifies banks that are primary 
dealers.14 Finally, 𝛿𝛿𝐴𝐴 represents (quarter) time-fixed effects which soak up any aggregate temporal 
change in conditions.  
W
e will typically report estimates for the overall period (column (1)), the QE I-III plus post 
pandemic QE period (column (2)), QE I-III periods (column (3)), and for the post QE III and QT 
period (column (4)). To ensure we do not have too many gaps in the panel analysis, we include the 
period Aug-Oct 2010 (between QE I and QE II) and Sep 2011-Aug 2012 (between QE II and QE 
III) as part of the QE period, even though these were periods in between phases of QE. Excluding 
these interim periods between successive QE programs does not change the results qualitatively. 
The pandemic QT period seems qualitatively different because balance sheet contraction was 
preceded by the sharp rise in inflation, accompanied by higher interest rates, and followed by bank 
runs within a year of its commencement. We analyze only the runs later in the paper. 
                                                 
14 We verify in Online Appendix Table A6 that these time-varying controls are not correlated with our reserves 
instrument, i.e., there is no “bad controls“ problem in the second stage. We also verify in Online Appendix Tables 
A7 and A8 that our results are robust to timing the controls at the beginning of each sub-period as well as excluding 
the controls altogether, respectively. 
===== PAGE 16 =====
15 
 
The first-stage results are presented in Table 3 Panel A. We find that the relevance criteria 
are met as the first-stage correlation between the instrument and the endogenous variable, viz., the 
log change in reserves of a bank, is estimated to be positive and significant across all time -series 
sub-samples of our regressions. We also report the F-statistic and the Kleibergen and Paap (2006) 
Wald F-Statistic as the robustness tests for instrument weakness.15 We find that the F-statistics are 
well above the thumb rule of 40 for each sub-sample of regressions and meet the Stock and Yogo 
(2005) thresholds for instrumental variable bias of 10% except for the sub-sample of post QE III 
and QT period. The Kleibergen-Paap F-statistics marginally improve when we reduce the number 
of clustered standard errors to just bank-level clustering (as the number of quarters in the post QE 
III and QT period is only 20), which we report in the Online Appendix Table A5.  
In the second stage, we regress the change in deposits, ∆𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵(𝐷𝐷𝑎𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑜𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠) , against 
instrumented ∆𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵(𝑅𝑅𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠) , including other independent variables included in the first stage:  
∆𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵(𝐷𝐷𝑎𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑜𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠)𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴=  𝛽𝛽1𝐼𝐼𝐵𝐵𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 ∆𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵(𝑅𝑅𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠)𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴+ 𝛽𝛽2𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵(𝑅𝑅𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠)𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−5 + 𝜇𝜇𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−1 + 𝜏𝜏𝐴𝐴+  𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴 
(5) 
where 𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−1 represents time-varying bank controls lagged by one quarter  as in equation (4) . 
Quarter time-fixed effects 𝜏𝜏𝐴𝐴 absorb any aggregate trends in deposit growth such as due to 
fluctuations in economic activity or increases in household financial assets.  
In Table 3 Panel B.1, we present OLS estimates, and in Panel B.2, instrumental variable 
(IV) estimates, for the impact of reserves on uninsured demandable deposits. For parsimony, we 
do not report estimated coefficients of the control variables including the fifth lag of log reserves.  
The coefficient estimates for our main variable of interest, the change in log reserves, are 
positive and significant in the OLS estimates for the overall period and all sub- periods. In the IV 
estimates, the instrumented change in log reserves is indeed positively and significantly correlated 
with the change in log uninsured demandable deposits in the overall sample (column (1)), the QE 
periods (column (2)), and QE I-III periods (column (3)), but for the p ost QE III and QT period 
(column (4)) it is negative and statistically insignificant.  
The positive IV coefficient during QE periods suggests that banks that receive QE-injected 
reserves increase their uninsured demand deposits.  This is consistent with the Fed buying bonds 
from non-banks which typically then hold flighty uninsured transaction or money market deposits 
                                                 
15 Cragg and Donald (1993) Wald F-statistics are not useful as standard errors are clustered two-ways by bank and 
quarter.  
===== PAGE 17 =====
16 
 
at banks (unlike sticky, typically retail, insured deposits). Since reserves shrink during the post QE 
III and QT period, the statistically insignificant IV coefficient during these periods support s the 
time-series finding that uninsured demandable deposits do not (reliably) shrink after having risen 
during QE periods, and the negative sign in fact implies that if anything they (noisily) keep rising.  
In terms of magnitudes, an exogenous 10 percent year-on-year increase in a bank’s reserves 
leads to a 2.05 percent rise in its uninsured demandable deposits in the overall time period , and 
1.96 percent rise in the QE periods . The statistically significant IV magnitudes in Panel B.2 are 
almost an order of magnitude greater than those observed in the OLS estimation in Panel B.1, 
suggesting there is some bank-level endogeneity that shrinks the magnitude of the OLS  estimate. 
The IV estimate is of the same order of magnitude as the simple time -series estimate based on 
aggregate data (Table 2, Panel A, Column 3).    
Panel C presents results on time deposits. While the OLS estimates (Panel C .1) suggest a 
positive relation between reserves and time deposits, the IV estimates (Panel C.2) imply a negative 
relation in the overall and QE periods (Columns 1- 3), suggesting that there is indeed some 
endogeneity in individual bank res erves that the IV e stimates address. This IV estimate is 
consistent in sign with our aggregate time-series results and about half the magnitude  (see Table 
1, Panel A, Column 3). Based on the estimates, an exogenous 10 percent year-on-year increase in 
a bank’s reserves leads to approximately a 1.6-1.8 percent decrease in the bank’s time deposits in 
the overall and the QE periods . Finally, t here is a statistically insignificant, albeit large -in-
magnitude, positive coefficient in the Post QE III and QT period (C.2 Column 4).  
Overall, Table 3 suggests that there is a maturity-shortening of deposits at the bank level 
during QE periods, as a bank’s uninsured transaction, money market,  and savings (all clubbed 
together as demandable) deposits increase with an influx of reserves, while longer -maturity time 
deposits decrease. This maturity-shortening, however, does not reverse when the central bank stops 
injecting or reduces aggregate reserves during the post QE III and QT period. The differential 
effect for demand and time deposits suggests that it is not just that deposit financing passively 
grows with reserves; there seems to be an active move by banks to substitute term financing with 
demandable financing.   
Could it be that this transformatio n is simply because lower interest rates accompany QE 
(Drechsler, Savov and Schnabl, 2017)? Importantly, we have shown that the maturity-shortening 
of deposits within quarter is greater at banks that typically received QE-injected reserves, so there 
===== PAGE 18 =====
17 
 
is a cross- sectional dimension to this, different from the time series that we control for. 16 More 
generally, the value of our panel tests is precisely to rule out confounding possibilities that make 
the aggregate time-series regressions hard to interpret. For in stance, the desire for time deposits 
may shrink during times of low interest rates, especially if QE is accompanied by forward guidance 
that rates will remain “low for long .” Since we identify greater rotation towards demandable 
deposits away from time deposits during QE for banks that are more reserve intensive, controlling 
for such time fixed-effects, this suggests an active bank preference rather than a passive one.  
There may be something special about the smallest banks, who dominate our sample. Large 
banks, by contrast, dominate activity. We check in Online Appendix C whether our estimates are 
broadly similar when we limit our sample to the top 100 banks by asset size as of 2014 Q3. This 
includes 8 banks greater than $250 billion in assets, 28 banks in $50-$250 billion in assets, and the 
rest below $50 billion.17 Indeed, by and large the magnitude of the coefficient estimates on 
instrumented reserves are similar f or the top 100 banks in explaining both uninsured demand 
deposits and time deposits, though statistical significance is lower in some sub-periods due to the 
smaller sample of banks. 
4.4. Impact of bank-level reserves and deposits on deposit rates 
In Table A3 of the O nline Appendix, we show (following Lopez -Salido and Vissing 
Jorgensen (2022)) that the pric e of aggregate liquidity, measured as the Effective Federal Funds 
Rate (EFFR) minus Interest on Excess Reserves (IOR),  is reduced by aggregate reserves 
outstanding but increased by claims on aggregate liquidity, that is, by deposits and credit lines 
outstanding. Aggregate analysis, as we have just noted, has the obvious problem that we cannot 
control for all time-varying factors.  Therefore, one way to get further insights into the financing 
of reserves by commercial banks with uninsured demandable rather than time deposits is to 
examine the relative pricing of these deposits across banks, correcting for time fixed effects.  Our 
intent is to see whether banks with more (exogenous) reserves tend to offer a lower spread for term 
                                                 
16 Furthermore, if we do control for a bank’s deposit “beta” (Drechsler, Savov and Schnabl, 2021), that is, for how 
much a bank’s deposit rate changes in relation to changes in the Federal Funds rate, we do not see a qualitative 
change in estimates for the first stage or the second stage of our panel tests in Table 3 (see Online Appendix Table 
A9). The deposit betas are from Philipp Schnabl’s website at 
https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~pschnabl/data/data_deposit_beta.htm (last update: April 2023). 
17 While standard errors are clustered at the bank-quarter level for the full sample, limiting the sample to top 100 banks 
allows for clustering only at the bank level, (refer to Appendix C) 
===== PAGE 19 =====
18 
 
deposits, that is, they prefer shrinking deposit maturity and foregoing the liquidity protection term 
deposits offer.  
Specifically, we focus in our cross-sectional deposit-rate tests on the spread between time-
deposit rates (in particular, rates on 3-, 12-, 18- and 24-month Certificates of Deposits where the 
depositor is locked in for the term by high withdrawal penalties ) and money market savings rates 
(henceforth MM savings rates). A narrowing of the difference between the two as a bank’s reserves 
grow, coupled with a reduction in the quantum of time deposits, would suggest the bank ’s 
unwillingness to pay more for term protection, a form of liability side search for yield.  
Formally, we employ a 2-SLS specification by instrumenting bank-level reserves and bank-
level deposits in the first stage. We have already discussed our instrument s for reserves. Deposit 
rates might be jointly determined with bank-level deposits as well – for example, a bank seeing an 
outflow of term deposits may raise term deposit rates , and this could show up as a negative 
correlation between deposits and spreads . To correct for such endogeneity, our i nstrument for 
deposits focuses on the counties the bank is present in  and the growth in deposits there . 
Specifically, the instrument is
,
, ,1
ln .
ctD
it ict
c Ci t ct
Depzw Dep∈ −
= 
∑  where 
,
,1
,1
it
ct
ict
ct
cC
Depw Dep
−
′ −
′∈
=
∑
 is the bank -
specific weight accorded to county c the bank operates in time t, and 
,
,1
ct
ct
Dep
Dep −
is the growth rate in 
aggregate deposits in that county over the past period.  The bank-specific weight is determined as 
the level of aggregate deposits in that county at time t-1 divided by the sum of aggregate deposits 
over all the counties the bank has a presence in. In other words, our deposit instrument for a bank 
is the overall deposit growth rates of the counties the bank has a presence in, weighted by their 
relative aggregate deposit size last period among all the counties the bank has a presence in.  
Implicitly, we assume the deposit growth rates in the larger counties (in terms of aggregate 
deposits) that the bank has a presence in will drive the growth rate in its own deposits, else the 
correlation of the instrument with deposits will be weak, and  the instrument will fail the standard 
weak instrument tests. The exclusion restriction is that the bank’s presence in those counties, the 
relative size of deposit banking in those counties, and the growth of deposits in those counties, are 
factors that do not determine the bank’s deposit spreads, other than through the size and growth of 
===== PAGE 20 =====
19 
 
its own deposits. We also control for bank and quarter fixed effects, which helps absorb bank- and 
quarter-level time-invariant variation in our first and second-stage regressions.  
Formally, we estimate the following model in the first stage:  
𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵(𝐷𝐷𝑎𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑜𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠)𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴= 𝛾𝛾11𝐷𝐷𝑎𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑜𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖𝑎𝑎 𝐼𝐼𝐵𝐵𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝑎𝑎𝐵𝐵𝑎𝑎𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴+ 𝛾𝛾12. 𝑅𝑅𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠 𝐼𝐼𝐵𝐵𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝑎𝑎𝐵𝐵𝑎𝑎𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴+ 𝜇𝜇𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−1 
+ 𝜌𝜌𝑖𝑖+  𝛿𝛿𝐴𝐴+  𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴                                                                                          (6) 
𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵(𝑅𝑅𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠)𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴= 𝛾𝛾21𝐷𝐷𝑎𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑜𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖𝑎𝑎 𝐼𝐼𝐵𝐵𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝑎𝑎𝐵𝐵𝑎𝑎𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴+ 𝛾𝛾22. 𝑅𝑅𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠 𝐼𝐼𝐵𝐵𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝑎𝑎𝐵𝐵𝑎𝑎𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴+ 𝜇𝜇𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−1 
+ 𝜌𝜌𝑖𝑖+  𝛿𝛿𝐴𝐴+  𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴                                                                                          (7) 
where i represents bank, t represents quarterly dat a, 𝜌𝜌𝑖𝑖 represents bank -fixed effects, and 𝛿𝛿𝐴𝐴 
represents (quarter) time-fixed effects. All regressions include bank-time-varying controls lagged 
by one quarter ( 𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−1). The first-stage results are presented in Table 4 Panel A.  Confirming the 
relevance criteria, we find that the first-stage correlation between the instrument and the relevant 
endogenous variables (Ln(Reserves) or Ln(Deposits)) is positive and significant across all sub -
samples of our regressions, except Ln(Reserves) with the reserves instrument in the Post QE -QT 
period (column (4) – we will return to this in the next section). The specification is also robust to 
Hansen-J test for overidentifying restrictions. As robustness tests for instrument weakness, we also 
report the F -statistic and the Kleibergen -Paap Wald F -statistic. We find these statistics are well 
above the thumb-rule of 40 for each sub-sample of regressions and meet the Stock-Yogo thresholds 
bias of 10% except, once again, for the sub-sample of post QE III and QT period.  
In the second stage, we regress deposit spreads  against instrumented Ln(Deposits) and 
Ln(Reserves); in particular, we estimate 
𝐷𝐷𝑎𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑜𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖𝑎𝑎 𝑅𝑅𝐵𝐵𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝑆𝑆𝑝𝑝𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝐵𝐵𝑆𝑆𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴= 𝛽𝛽1𝐼𝐼𝐵𝐵𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵(𝐷𝐷𝑎𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑜𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠)𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴+ 𝛽𝛽2 𝐼𝐼𝐵𝐵𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵(𝑅𝑅𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠)𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴+ 𝜇𝜇𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝑎𝑎−1 +  
 𝜋𝜋𝑖𝑖+ 𝜏𝜏𝐴𝐴+  𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴    (8) 
where i represents bank i, t represents the quarterly date, 𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−1 again represents bank-time varying 
controls lagged by one quarter as in the first -stage, 𝜋𝜋𝑖𝑖 represents bank -fixed effects and 𝜏𝜏𝐴𝐴 
represents (quarter) time-fixed effects. Deposit Rate Spread refers to the 3-, 12-, 18-, or 24-month 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) Rate to MM Savings Rate Spread. The primary coefficient of interest 
in model (8) is 𝛽𝛽2, and the hypothesis is that it is negative because an exogenous increase in bank 
reserves induces a preference in banks for a shorter maturity of deposits, whence they reduce time 
deposit spreads.  
===== PAGE 21 =====
20 
 
Table 4, Panels B presents the second-stage of the 2-SLS regression results (corresponding 
OLS results are in the Online Appendix Table A10). Within each panel, subpanels 1-4 correspond 
sequentially to estimates for the overall time period and individual QE/QT periods.  
We see that for the overall sample of banks and the overall time period (subpanel B.1), the 
coefficients on Ln(Reserves) are always negative as expected and statistically significant .  The 
coefficient magnitude is smaller by a factor of 2 to 4 for the 12- month CD spread relative to the 
other CD maturities (there may be more noise  in the 12-month CD spread across banks, because 
some banks treat it as a short -term CD with minimal loss of interest if the CD is withdrawn 
prematurely, while others treat it as a long-term CD with substantial penalty for early withdrawal). 
In terms of economic magnitude, a one standard deviation increase in the instrumented log reserves 
(demeaned for bank and t ime fixed effects) translates into a 48 basis points narrower 18- month 
CD to MM Savings Rate Spread, which is about 1.16 times the standard deviation  of the  
(demeaned) 18-month CD to MM Savings Rate  Spread. We note here that the unreported 
coefficients on Ln(Total Deposits) are positive but insignificant. 
Examining estimates for the individual time periods (subpanels B.2-4), we find that relative 
to the overall sample period, the negative effect of reserves on the term spread for deposits is 
similar in magnitude for all of the QE periods ( subpanel B.2) and the  QE I -III periods  alone 
(subpanel B.3). Interestingly however, pricing in the Post QE III/QT period ( subpanel B.4) 
becomes much noisier, with the coefficients on Ln(Reserves) turning positive for three of the four 
maturities. Hence, similar to the estimates from quantities, the cross -sectional bank pricing of 
liquidity turns noisy with the shrinkage in reserves, instead of simply reversing. Of course, we 
should note the weakness of our instrument in this sub-period.  
4.5.  Impact of Reserves on Origination of Credit Lines 
As discussed earlier, b anks can also create demandable claims on liquidity  through the 
provision of credit lines. There has been a significant  increase since 2010 (post Global Fin ancial 
Crisis and its aftermath) in credit lines as a percentage of GDP, as shown in Figure 2 earlier.  Credit 
line usage has also evolved into an important source of liquidity management for corporations. In 
the early stages of the pandemic, there was a dash for cash (Kashyap, 2020) and credit lines were 
substantially drawn down in March 2020 (see e.g. Acharya and Steffen (2020) and Acharya, Engle, 
Jager and Steffen (2024)). Despite this unprecedented usage, the amount of undrawn outstanding 
credit lines increased much beyond the pre-pandemic levels by the end of 2021.  
===== PAGE 22 =====
21 
 
In this sub-section, we provide  corroborating evidence using panel data that banks with 
higher exogenous reserves originate more credit lines. To investigate the effect of an exogenous 
change in reserves on the origination of credit lines  across banks, we re-compute the instrument 
for reserves at the BHC level, since data on bank participat ion in the syndicates that offer credit 
lines are at the BHC level. Table 5, Panel A confirms that the instrument meets the relevance 
criteria as well as passes the instrument weakness threshold for the overall period (Column 1) and 
the QE periods (Columns 2 and 3). However, the instrument is statistically insignificant in 
explaining reserves during the post QE III and QT period as well as fails to cross the instrument 
weakness threshold (Column 4). We will return to this issue in the next section. 
For the second stage, we estimate at the BHC (i) -quarter (t) level: 
∆𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵(𝐶𝐶𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑆𝑆𝑖𝑖𝑎𝑎 𝐿𝐿𝑖𝑖𝐵𝐵𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠)
𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴=  𝛽𝛽1∆𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵(𝑅𝑅𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠)𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴+ 𝛽𝛽2𝐿𝐿𝐵𝐵(𝑅𝑅𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠)𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−5 +  𝜇𝜇𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝑎𝑎−1 + 𝜏𝜏𝐴𝐴+ 𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴    (9) 
where 𝜇𝜇𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴−1 represents bank-time-varying controls lagged by one quarter, 𝜏𝜏𝐴𝐴 is a quarter-time fixed 
effect, again to control for aggregate growth trends induced by fluctuations in economic activity. 
𝐶𝐶𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑆𝑆𝑖𝑖𝑎𝑎 𝐿𝐿𝑖𝑖𝐵𝐵𝑎𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖𝐴𝐴 is the total amount of lines of credit to IG -rated corporations (Table 5, Panel B ) 
and Non-IG rated corporations (Table 5, Panel C) originated by BHC i in quarter t. Standard errors 
in parentheses are clustered at the quarter level.  Both panels show the OLS estimates as well as 
the IV ones. 
A possible concern with OLS estimates is (again) that of endogeneity.  Banks that need 
more central bank reserves, for example, due to an increase in liquidity risk, may also cut back on 
new credit lines to reduce risk. This can result in a negative correl ation, or dampen the otherwise 
positive correlation, between reserves and credit lines. Indeed, the OLS estimates reported in 
Panels B.1 and C.1 suggest that an increase in reserves is often associated with a decrease in the 
amount of credit lines that are  originated, though the coefficients are not uniformly statistically 
significant.  
 The IV estimates  reported in Panels B.2 and C.2 correct for endogeneity. They indicate 
that during the overall and QE  periods, an exogenous 10% increase in a bank’s reserve growth 
leads to an increase in the origination of lines of credit  to investment-grade firms by about 2.23 
percent and non-investment-grade firms by 2.28 percent for the overall period.  
===== PAGE 23 =====
22 
 
For both types of firms, the coefficient estimate on reserves i s not statistically significant 
only for the post QE III/QT period, and indeed has a negative sign for IG firms.18 It may well be, 
however, that the first stage is simply not well- identified for the post QE III/QT period at BHC 
level (which shrinks the cross-section appreciably), rendering difficult any statistical inference in 
the second stage.  
4.6. Implications 
Overall, that reserves-recipient BHCs expand outstanding credit lines during QE (Table 5) 
is consistent with their preference for taking on liquidity r isk, as seen also in the bank -level 
increase of uninsured demandable deposits (Table 3) and decrease of deposit maturity (Table 4). 
The evidence on off balance sheet liabilities growing during QE also assuages concerns that these 
effects of QE on liquidity risk-taking by the banking sector (Tables 3 and 4) are simply due to 
some mechanical balance sheet effect.  While the absence of precise coefficient estimates for the 
post QE III/QT period suggest that banks simply do not reverse their claims, our reserve 
instruments in this period are not always strong (Tables 4 and 5). W e now examine bank balance 
sheets more closely to understand what might be going on. 
5. Financial Fragility in Moving from QE to QT. 
QE is not simply an expansion of reserves, taking the nature of claims on liquidity on the 
banking sector as static .  Were it so, any increase in central bank b alance sheet size by injecting 
reserves would always enhance financial stability. In contrast, the liquidity dependence view (see 
Acharya and Rajan (2024)) suggests that banks write new liquidity claims when the central bank  
issues reserves that it does not intend to withdraw quickly. Furthermore, banks don’t not always 
shrink these claims commensurately when the central bank switches from expanding to shrinking 
its balance sheet (as for example, in 2017-19), creating an aggregate liquidity mismatch.19 
                                                 
18 In a related finding, Carletti et al. (2021) exploit a tax change in Italy that induced households to switch from bank 
bonds to deposits and find that banks experiencing a greater inflow of retail deposits expand the supply of credit 
lines and term loans to low-risk credits. 
19 The increase in demand for reserves is described in a Federal Reserve survey of senior loan officers in November 
2022: “the majority of respondents from domestic banks reported that their bank’s lowest comfortable level of reserves 
(LCLOR) had increased [since the end of 2019]…; most of the group reported the change being an increase by more 
than 20 percent…A large majority of respondents reported that their bank always preferred to hold additional reserves 
above their bank’s LCLOR.” (see Senior Financial Officer Survey Results, November 2022, Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, p 2). 
===== PAGE 24 =====
23 
 
We now examine these developments across banks more carefully . In an episode of 
aggregate liquidity shortage, bank specific vulnerabilities will get ac centuated and therefore it is 
important to understand where the  liquidity mismatches are the largest. Our analysis here should 
be thought of as illustrative of vulnerabilities built up across bank characteristics during central 
bank balance sheet expansions and contractions, rather than an exhaustive or causal analysis. 
5.1. Ratcheting-up of liquidity risk at some banks 
5.1.1. Growth in uninsured demandable deposits and its variation by bank size 
 Banks of different sizes are regulated differently.  As noted by Yankov (2020), liquidity 
coverage ratio (LCR) regulations were applied rigorously to large banks with size above $250 
billion in assets, moderately to mid-size banks between $50 billion and $250 billion in assets, and 
mildly to small banks below $ 50 billion in assets.20 These partitions were known ahead of time, 
and the regulation implemented in a phased manner during 2014 to 2017. Partitioning banks 
according to asset size in 2014Q3, we plot value-weighted ratios, i.e., they are the aggregate of the 
numerator across banks in a partition, divided by the aggregate of the denominator.  
Figure 3, Panel A shows that uninsured demandable deposits to bank assets follows an 
upward trend during 2008Q4-2021Q4, from 16.5% to 39.2% for the largest banks, 14.1% to 35.8% 
for mid-size banks, and 10.2% to 33.8% for the small banks. The largest proportional increase in 
uninsured demandable deposits seems to take place for the small banks, the ones not subject to the 
LCR regulations.  Importantly, the ratio  was stable for the largest  banks, rose for the smallest 
banks, and fell for the medium sized banks during the Post-QE + QT period of 2014-19. It did fall 
for all banks during the pandemic -QT in 2022- 23 as polic y rates were also raised sharply  
(culminating with bank runs or sharp deposit outflows starting in 2023Q1). Perhaps more 
accentuated is the ratio of uninsured demand deposits to bank rese rves (see Online Appendix 
Figure A1 Panel A), which really explodes for the smallest banks during 2014- 2019, and again 
around the initiation of QT in 2022. The differential behavior across banks in how claims on 
liquidity and reserves respond to declines in aggregate reserves in Post -QE/QT periods m ay 
explain why the reserves instrument is weak over these periods.  
                                                 
20 LCR regulation imposes a minimum requirement on the amount of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets 
(HQLA) that would allow banks to service a supervisory 30-day liquidity stress scenario. In particular, HQLA 
should exceed 30-day net outflow under the stress scenario, in its most stringent implementation. 
===== PAGE 25 =====
24 
 
Even if commercial banks find issuing liquidity claims worthwhile, why do they not shrink 
their issuance of claims on liquidity whenever the central bank withdraws reserves from the system 
(as in 2014-2019)? One possibility is that banks feel confident in their access to liquidity because 
they substitute lost reserves during QT with bonds that are eligible collateral for repo transactions. 
Eligible securities are , of course, not cash, though they may give holders the illusion of ready 
access to reserves. In a dash for cash, everyone will want to borrow reserves, and few will want to 
lend them, exacerbating demand relative to supply. So substituting reserves with eligible securities 
does not eliminate exposure to liquidity stress, and may indeed exacerbate it if banks become 
overconfident about their access to reserves.   
In Figure 3 Panel B we calculate a bank’s  ratio of uninsured demandable deposits to its 
potential liquidity, the latter being measured as its reserves plus eligible assets, where eligible 
assets are those that qualify as collateral for borrowing reserves from the Fed (at any time during 
our sample period) . Such c ollateral is also commonly posted and accepted for repo market 
transactions. Uninsured demandable deposits relative to potential liquidity fell during 2008Q4-
2021Q4 from a multiple of 1.29 to 1.15 for the largest banks, and marginally rose from 0.97 to 
0.98 for mid- size ban ks; for the small banks, however, it rose from 0.68 to 1.45. So there is 
important cross-size variation in the ratcheting-up of liquidity risk in the banking sector. By 2021, 
small banks, which traditionally used to hold more insured deposits and liquid assets, seem to have 
swapped position with the largest banks in being the most exposed to unbacked uninsured deposits 
(especially so given their limited access to wholesale funding and public bond and equity markets). 
As a side note, Silicon Valley Bank was a small bank by our measure till 2019.
21 
Pandemic QT, when rates also moved up rapidly, is particularly interesting. Initially, from 
2022Q1 to 2022Q4, the uninsured demandable deposit multiple rose for the largest, the mid- size, 
and the small banks to 1.34, 1.09 and 1.7, respectively. But with the onset of banking stress in the 
first quarter of 2023, and the rapid movement in deposits, the ratio fell to 1.09, 0.88 and 1.34 in 
2023Q4, respectively, a particularly substantial fall for the small banks. 
 
                                                 
21 Ruan and Vij (2024), focusing on a 2018 regulatory cap on the size of Wells Fargo bank, document that it led to a 
growth of uninsured deposits at smaller, less regulated banks, especially during the COVID-19 aftermath. 
Subsequently, these banks faced deposit outflows around the SVB stress in 2023. Their finding is consistent with 
facts we document, though the relative rise of uninsured demandable deposits at small banks is seen in data even 
pre-2018 (and especially so relative to their potential liquidity).  
===== PAGE 26 =====
25 
 
5.1.2. Claims to potential liquidity: a composite measure of liquidity risk  
Recognizing credit lines are also claims on liquidity, we compute Claims to Potential 
Liquidity as the ratio of uninsured demandable deposits and outstanding credit lines to reserves 
plus eligible assets.22 Note that since the field for Off  Balance Sheet Unused Credit Lines 
(RCFDJ457) only appears 2010Q1 onwards, our analysis of the Claims to Liquidity Ratio starts in 
2010Q1. In Figure 4, Panel A shows that for the aggregate commercial ban king balance sheet, 
claims to potential liquidity had come down to 1.6 by the end of QE III, rose again to peak at 1.9 
around the liquidity stresses of September 2019 and the end of pre-pandemic QT, falling again to 
1.5 during pandemic-QE, but then rising again to 1.8 by the time of banking stress of 2023 (and 
falling thereafter), reflecting well its movement in tandem with the waxing and waning of Fed 
balance sheet.  
Figure 4 Panel B mirrors Figure 3 Panel B in showing the cross-section of the ratcheting-
up of this measure of liquidity exposure from 2010Q1 to 2023Q1, emphasizing that it is most 
pronounced again for the small banks.
23 We will see that t he rise in outstanding credit lines, a 
component of this measure, is an important vulnerability during the dash for cash at the time of 
COVID outbreak.  
Finally, Fi gure 4 Panel C shows how the distribution of Claims to Potential Liquidity 
evolves, with a density plot separately for QE I-III, post QE III, and QT (2017Q4-2019Q3) periods, 
in each case bunching all values greater than or equal to 6 as a single point of mass at 6. It is clear 
that Claims to Potential Liquidity  ends up in  September 2019 (end of pre -pandemic QT) with a 
significantly fatter right tail at values greater than or equal to 6. In other words, by September 
2019, in addition to the system having a larger ratio of Claims to Potential Liquidity, there was an 
increase in dispersion among banks in such Claims.  
As aggregate reserves started shrinking during QT, reserve- deficient banks were now 
effectively reliant on repo markets to obtain reserves from surplus banks by pledging eligible 
                                                 
22 There are other bank liabilities and assets that could also be considered. For instance, funds borrowed from the 
Federal Reserve plus other funds borrowed (e.g., from Federal Home Loan Banks) could also signal fragility that 
has been addressed by official backstops rather than privately; subordinated debt borrowings could matter if there is 
a nexus of solvency and liquidity issues; finally, Federal funds sold and reverse repos could also be sources of 
potential liquidity for banks given their short-term nature. Results that follow are robust to including these in 
alternate definitions of claims to potential liquidity (see Online Appendix Figure A1 and Table A13). 
23 Interestingly, uninsured demandable deposits drive most of the variation in the ratio for small banks. In size-
weighted terms, these deposits at small banks grew by 2022Q1 to more than 300% of their 2010Q1 level, while their 
holdings of eligible assets (Treasury and Agency securities) grew by less than 200% over the same period.  
===== PAGE 27 =====
26 
 
assets, failing which they had to go to the Fed. As Acharya and Rajan ( 2024) explain, such  
interdependence can render the system fragile and illiquid. Treasury repo rates could spike up if 
surplus banks hoard liquidity, and with the overall system being tight, there may have been 
incentive for them to do so.24  Similarly, the onset of the pandemic might not have caused the dash 
for cash on corporate credit lines in March 2020  if the system had not already seen a significant 
tightening of reserves relative to demandable claims on liquidity. 
5.2. Liquidity risk seeking as a form of search for yield by banks  
Why do banks seek liquidity risk? Meiselman, Nagel and Purnanandam (2023) show that 
banks with high accounting returns on equity (ROE) had higher systematic tail risk during the 
Global Financial Crisis (GFC). They show ROE has strong predictive power for materialization of 
such tail risk both during the 2007- 09 global financial crisis as well as the 2023 banking sector 
stress. Since bank top management has high- powered incentives to generate ROE, this may also 
incentivize them to reach for yield by taking liquidity risks in normal times, that is, reduce funding 
costs with uninsured demandable deposits and generate higher fee premia by writing credit 
commitments, in return for a small probability of a really bad outcome when massive drawdowns 
are realized (see, for example, Rajan (2006)). The post -GFC regulations such as more stringent 
capital requirements (e.g., stress tests) and the LCR requirement w ere meant to curb this kind of 
risk-taking, but these regulations apply more to large banks than small banks, and supervision post 
GFC has also been uneven except for the very large banks, as suggested by Barr (2023).  
Figure 5 relates the log of bank Return On Equity (ROE, measured as Income before Tax 
divided by Total Book Equity) to the log of Claims to Potential Liquidity , at quarterly frequency 
over the period 2010Q1 to 2021Q4, controlling for bank and time fixed effects, and separately for 
mid-size and small banks (left plots) and large banks (right plots).
25 Given the time -series 
evolution in ratcheting-up of liquidity risk (as seen in Figures 3 and 4), Panel A shows the bin-
scatter for QE I -III period of 2010Q1 to 2014Q3, Panel B for the post QE -III and QT period of 
2014Q4 to 2019Q3, and Panel C shows it for the pandemic QE period of 2019Q4 to 2021Q4.  
                                                 
24 Such hoarding might be an attempt to signal their “fortress” balance sheet with high reserves, a consequence of 
regulatory requirements to hold liquidity (Copeland, Duffie and Yang (2021), D’Avernas and Vandeweyer (2021)), 
or the fear of supervisory stigma from having to access the Fed for intra-day reserves (Nelson (2019, 2022)). 
25 Conclusions we draw are all robust to examining the relationship between bank ROE and claims to potential 
liquidity, i.e., without taking logs (see Online Appendix Figure A2). 
===== PAGE 28 =====
27 
 
The left plots show that while liquidity risk is positively and significantly associated with 
ROE for mid -size and small banks across all three periods, the economic magnitude of the 
relationship is small, with a unit increase in Claims to Potential Liquidity being associated with an 
increase in bank ROE by around 1 -6 basis points.  In contrast, the right plots show that liquidity 
risk is not statistically significantly associated with ROE for large banks during two of three 
periods (perhaps due to lack of statistical power from there being only eight banks in this sample  
of banks subject to the most stringent LCR). However, during QE and especially during post QE-
III and QT (when the aggregate price of liquidity risk would have risen), the economic magnitude 
of the relationship is large, and statistically significant in the latter. Conversely, during pandemic 
QE when the system is flooded with liquidity and the relationship might have attenuated, the 
coefficient estimate is negative. 
 The bottom l ine, therefore, is that for banks below 250 billion in assets  (which typically 
have lower profitability overall ), there appear to be gains in accounting profitability from taking 
on liquidity risk across all QE and QT periods, though gains seem to be small. For large banks, the 
gains are especially large post-QE and in QT when aggregate liquidity becomes tighter. That leads 
to the critical question: Does any of this individual liquidity risk taking matter when aggregate 
liquidity shortages emerge?   
5.3. Consequences of ratcheting-up of bank liquidity risk  
  We investigate two episodes of plausible aggregate  liquidity shortage, the COVID- 19 
outbreak of March 2020 and runs on banks by uninsured depositors in March 2023. We have 
shown that the individual bank’s response (and the aggregate systemic response) to the Fed’s QE 
and QT  set up the mismatch between claims on liquidity and available liquidity that would 
potentially be troubling in case of an aggregate shock . These mismatches were high as we have 
seen (Figure 4 panel A) just before the onset of the pandemic, and before the bank runs in March 
2023, especially for small banks (Figure 4 panel B). We now show that smaller banks with higher 
liquidity risk exposure suffered greater stock price falls, claim drawdowns, and greater resort to 
Fed liquidity facilities during these episodes.   
5.3.1. COVID-19 outbreak (March 2020) 
We first examine bank returns during March 2020, i.e., at the onset of the COVID -19 
pandemic, when the financial system experienced intense liquidity stress. Panel A of Figure 6 
shows the time-series from Jan 1 to June 30, 2020 of the stock return difference between banks 
===== PAGE 29 =====
28 
 
split into those with high and those with low Claims to Potential Liquidity ratio (median split) 
measured as of December 31, 2019. The stock prices of banks with an above-median ratio dropped, 
on average, 7.5 percentage points more by third week of March 2020 compared to banks with a 
below-median ratio. The decline is particularly  sharp from March 1, 2020 onward, as awareness 
of the likely impact of the pandemic dawned, and until March 23, 2020, when a series of liquidity 
interventions by the Federal Reserve Bank stemmed the market decline including of bank stock 
prices (Acharya, E ngle, Jager  and Steffen, 2024).  While the differential stock return narrows 
somewhat thereafter, it remained close to –4.0% even at end of June 2020. 
To tease out the effects for smaller banks, and for the different components of Claims to 
Potential Liquidity (though the small number of observations makes this analysis only suggestive), 
we compute the total return on the stock of a BHC minus the cumulative stock market (S&P500). 
In Table 6 column 1, the dependent variable is this excess return from Jan 1 st to Feb 28 th. As 
explanatory variables, we include our measure of liquidity risk exposure, Claims to P otential 
Liquidity (logged to ensure that inference is not driven by extreme outliers) and a set of BHC-level 
control variables  at the end of 2019, consis ting of  Net Income/Assets, Equity/Assets, Non-
Performing Loans to Loans ratio, Loans/Assets and the Primary Dealer Indicator. The coefficient 
on Claims to Potential Liquidity, is positive. Since there were no relevant news surprises over this 
period, all we take away is there was no pre-trend in stock prices.  
In columns (2)-(4), the dependent variable is the cumulative excess return  from March 1 
2020 to March 23rd 2020, the period when credit line drawdowns increased.  The various claims 
to liquidity, both directly and interacted with bank size  indicator (which is one if book assets are 
below or equal to $250bln in 2019Q4), are the primary explanatory variables of interest. Estimates 
suggest that during 1 st-23rd March 2020, bank returns appear negatively but not significantly 
correlated with claims (whether overall, credit lines, or deposits), and negatively but again not 
significantly correlated with the smaller bank size indicator. Returns are, however, economically 
as well as statistically significantly more negative for smaller banks with credit line exposure  
(column 3).  
With all the caveats associated with a small number of observations, this makes sense.  At 
the outbreak of Covid, liquidity stress came from a drawdown in credit lines , as firms rushed to 
assure themselves of liquidity bef ore banks t ightened conditions for drawdowns . Supportive of 
this, in Figure 6 panel B, we plot the realized Gross Drawdowns  (measured as the change in 
===== PAGE 30 =====
29 
 
outstanding corporate credit lines for a bank in FDIC Call Reports during Q1 2020 relative to total 
assets) against the log of Credit Lines to Potential Liquidity ratio of banks. The scatter plot as well 
as the fitted regression line show a clear positive association – banks that had written more credit 
lines relative to potential liquidity experienced more drawdowns. This  must have particu larly 
affected the stock price of small and medium banks that had written them as they would have had 
to find immediate costly sources of liquidity to meet these demands and because these drawdowns 
encumbered bank capital (see Acharya, Engle, Jager and Steffen (2024)) . Because there were no 
associated fears of bank insolvency, uninsured demand deposit exposure at these banks was not as 
much a worry for market participants (column 4), which is perhaps why we find overall liquidity 
exposure at smaller banks has large negative but noisy effects (column 2).26 
How about borrowing from the Fed and allied authorities? W e plot in Figure 7 Panel A 
quarterly data on “Other Borrowings” (relative to assets), which include discount window 
borrowing from the Fed as well as advances from the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs) for the 
period 2019Q1 to 2023Q1. Panel A shows that Other Borrowings were high following the COVID-
19 outbreak in 2020, especially for smaller banks, consistent with discount window borrowings 
from the Fed, but started declining from 2020Q2 until 2022Q1 when tightening started again.  
Large banks were uniformly less reliant than small banks on these facilities from 2019 Q3.  
We can delve deeper. There usually is stigma associated with discount window borrowing, 
so banks undertake it only if liquidity stressed. The dependent variable in columns (5)-(7) of Table 
6 is an indicator if a bank borrowed from the Fed’s discount window during 2020Q1- Q4.  The 
coefficient estimates on all direct measures of claims to potential liquidity are negative, suggesting  
large banks that write them do not have to approach the discount window because they have other 
sources of liquidity (e.g., repo borrowing) or offsetting claims on liquidity during stressed times 
as in Kashyap, Rajan, and Stein (2002) and Gatev and Strahan (2007) (e.g., if credit line 
drawdowns on smaller banks are redeposited with large banks). By contrast, we find that relative 
to large banks, smaller banks are significantly more likely to approach the discount window, 
especially if they have written more claims to liquidity. Interestingly, even though there were no 
                                                 
26 Indeed, as documented by Li, Strahan and Zhang (2020), many (e.g., the highest-rated) firms that drew down 
credit lines from the largest banks did so for precautionary reasons rather than liquidity needs and simply 
redeposited credit line drawdowns with their banks, transforming a possibly revocable promise (credit line) to an 
irrevocable one (deposit). 
===== PAGE 31 =====
30 
 
significant uninsured deposit drawdowns, we find that smaller banks that have uninsured deposit 
exposure (column (7)) also approached the discount window, perhaps with a precautionary motive.   
   Because of the early and unprecedentedly large Fed intervention, and perhaps because 
large banks were better-capitalized and more solvent than during the global financial crisis, the 
dash for cash did not turn into a full -scale panic. T he events of March 2020 remained simply a 
warning of what could happen. We turn next to the bank runs of March 2023.   
 5.3.2. Mid-sized bank runs and regional banking stress (March 2023) 
Figure 2 Panel B shows a steep, almost vertical, increase in commercial bank reserves and deposits 
in 2020Q1 with the QE initiated at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, while Figure 4 Panel B 
shows Claims to Potential Liquidity  ratcheting up till early 2023. Did the pandemic QE and the 
growth in liquidity exposure set the stage for the banking stress that followed in March 2023?  
 In March 2023, a mid -size bank, Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) Financial Group, with over 
$200 billion in assets, became distressed. SVB had gained 140 billion dollars in deposits during 
the Pandemic QE period of 2019Q4 -  2022Q1, over 90% being uninsur ed deposits. However, as 
has been our recurring theme, reserves did not stay where the demandable deposits were. Instead, 
SVB had invested mostly in a long -dated Treasury portfolio and the rest in loans to tech -sector 
startups that were also its depositors in a large m easure.  The pace of its expansion was so rapid 
that both total assets and deposits more than tripled during the Q1 2020 to Q4 2022 period. When 
interest rates were raised sharply in 2022 -23, long duration asset values fell. T he resulting value 
erosion of SVB’s bond portfolio and tech sector losses induced a net outflow of $25 billion of 
deposits between 2022 Q2-2022Q4. This accelerated to a full-fledged run as large depositors, such 
as tech -sector venture -capital firms , sensed insolvency. After  a significa nt loss of deposits in 
March 2023, the bank failed on March 10, 2023 and was put under FDIC receivership. At least 22 
banks experienced runs at that time (see Cipriani, Eisenbach, and Kovner (2024)). The runs ended 
after unprecedented intervention by the F ed, the FDIC,  and the Treasury, including a new Fed 
Bank Term Funding Program (BFTP), lending by the Federal Home Loan Banks, and the invoking 
of the systemic risk exception to bail out all uninsured depositors  in the failed banks. T he FDIC 
incurred losses exceeding $30 billion to date in the process (Gruenberg (2023)). 
While some banks were likely insolvent and man y poorly supervised, did t heir outcomes 
turn out to be  emblematic of small - and medium -sized banks in general , especially given the 
ratcheting up of liquidity risk at small banks seen in Figures 3 and 4? Table 7 answers this question 
===== PAGE 32 =====
31 
 
econometrically, also employing bank-level control variables in the cross-sectional regressions. It 
is especially important in this period to separate liquidity risk effects from potential concerns of 
solvency. Hence, we verify that the results are robust to controlling for each bank’s mark-to-market 
losses using balance sheets and the methodology of Jiang et al. (2023) to compute losses, allowing 
for the effect of losses to vary by bank size groups (Online Appendix Table A11 Panel B).  
In column 1, the dependent variable is the bank’s pre event excess return (over the period  
Jan 3-Feb 28 2023). As we can see from the positive but economically small coefficient estimate 
on Claims to Potential Liquidity , there is no pre -trend. Columns (2) -(4) examine excess stock 
returns of banks over the period 1st March to 13th March 2023, which represents the peak period 
of bank runs on small and mid-sized banks, with a range of dependent variables that allow for the 
effect of liquidity risk (and its components)  to be size- dependent. Coefficient estimates suggest 
once again there is indeed a divergence betw een large  banks and smaller ones. In particular, 
interacting claims to potential liquidity with an indicator if the bank’s 2022Q4 asset size is below 
$250 billion shows that the adverse stock market effects are relatively much larger for m id-size 
and small banks relative to similar large banks. Importantly, it is uninsured deposits to potential 
liquidity (and also claims to potential liquidity, of which it is the major component) which drive 
the effect. In particular, if we vary the claims to potential liquidity ratio from the 25
th to the 75th 
percentile of its distribution, the adverse stock market return implied by the coefficient estimates 
is 2.78 p.p. lower for small and mid-size banks relative to that for similarly exposed large banks. 
Interestingly, because the concerns in March 2023 were centered around the solvency of banks 
stemming from illiquidity, not around corporate needs to drawdown credit lines, credit lines 
outstanding seem to play less of a role.
27 
Turning to quarterly change in uninsured demandable deposits in Columns (5)-(7), higher 
exposure to liquidity risk does result in drawdowns of deposits from 2022Q1 to 2023Q1, especially 
at smaller banks. The magnitude of the effect is particularly pronounced for banks that have high 
uninsured depos its to potential liquidity exposure.  For large banks, the change is positive, 
consistent with a flight- to-quality of uninsured deposits to the largest banks (see, for instance, 
Caglio, Dlugosz, and Rezende (2023)). While the latter may in part be due to their too -big-to-fail 
                                                 
27 In Online Appendix Table A11 Panel A we exclude delisting returns of the failed banks (Signature Bank and 
Silicon Valley Banks) and also run a cross-section with Change in Ln(Uninsured Demandable Deposits) and Change 
in Ln(Other Borrowed Money) over 2022Q4-2023Q1. Results are robust to these changes. 
===== PAGE 33 =====
32 
 
status, we showed earlier in Figure 4 that these banks, on average, brought down their Claims to 
Potential Liquidity substantially since 2008Q3, perhaps because of more binding LCR 
requirements, besides being better-capitalized than the rest because of their systemic status.    
Finally, a significant consequence of all this was again the liquidity dependence of smaller 
banks on the Fed. Returning to Figure 7 Panel A, we see that Other Borrowed Money sky-rocketed 
for small and medium banks, growing steadily as the Fed started tightening in March 2022. In 
contrast, their borrowing in the private market, as evidenced by Fed Funds Borrowed in Figure 7 
Panel B, stayed low during the crisis. Private b orrowing by large banks increased significantly in 
2023q1, suggesting they continued to be able to access private markets. Comparing the magnitudes 
across the panels, while large banks had approximately equal reliance on public and private funds 
during 2023Q1, for small (mid- size) banks the reliance on public funds was about eight (seven) 
times that on private funds. This suggests that the Fed and Home Loan Banks, not private markets, 
emerged as the marginal source of liquidity for small and mid-size banks, confirming their liquidity 
dependence.  
The estimates in Table 7 Columns (8)-(10) highlight this liquidity dependence of smaller 
banks on the authorities (unfortunately, details of discount window borrowing will be released 
only with a two -year lag). The (log) quarterly change in Other Borrowings f rom 2022Q 1 to 
2023Q1 is significantly greater for smaller banks with greater (log) claims to potential liquidity . 
Once again, these data suggests that unlike at the time of COVID outbreak, this dependence is 
driven by banks with uninsured demandable deposits  exposure (column 10) and less so by those 
with outstanding credit lines (column 9). 
In sum then, our analysis of where liquidity exposures build up in the system, and then how 
they play out in the face of aggregate liquidity shocks in March 2020 a nd March 2023 , suggest 
liquidity exposure is not entirely benign . At the very le ast, it suggests a dependence on  Fed 
liquidity support. Of course, we do not have compelling explanations about why liquidity risk 
exposure builds up in parts of the banking system other than the lack of regulation coupled with 
the agency incentive to search for yield. There could also be organizational behavior explanations. 
For instance, if units are set up by banks to write lines of credit, it may be hard for them to withdraw 
committed lines, or disband units, when reserves shrink.  The need to maintain corporate 
relationships may be a related reason why banks may be reluctant to cut back on liquidity claims. 
Silicon Valley Bank, for instance, maintained uninsured transaction deposit accounts for tech 
===== PAGE 34 =====
33 
 
companies (see, for example, Chang, Cheng and Hong (2023)). Until the shortage of aggregate 
liquidity makes itself felt through disruptions, individual banks may not realize, or have an 
incentive to ignore, a tightening of aggregate conditions. Such behavior may be especially 
pronounced and rational if banks believe the Fed will always come to the rescue. Indeed, since the 
Fed has repeatedly come to the rescue and reaffirmed the liquidity put, it is hard to assess the 
counterfactual.
 
6. Discussion: Other Explanations and Policy Implications. 
6.1. Other Explanations 
A possible explanation of our finding that banks expand their balance sheets at the same 
time as the Fed does is that it is not causal. Instead, as Lopez-Salido and Vissing-Jorgensen (2022) 
argue, the value of household assets increased during QE, and the rise in deposits could be a natural 
consequence if the households maintained a constant deposit to asset ratio. The fact that uninsured 
demand deposits expand disproportionately with reserves during QE (see Figure 2 Panel B), and 
uninsured deposits are typically not held by households suggests this cannot be the entire story.
28 
It is also not clear why, if banks passively accommodated deposit flows, they would push time 
deposit rates lower (as we have documented) or issue credit lines when flush with reserves.  
6.2. Policy Implications  
Turning to policy, clearly a primary function of a central bank is to provide emergency 
temporary liquidity support to maintain financial stability. Indeed, the shortage of reserves relative 
to claims can never be a problem if the Federal Reserve can lend reserves at short notice to the 
degree desired to all who desire it, and have eligible collateral to borrow.
29  
                                                 
28 A more direct way to test our explanation is to re-estimate Table 1 Panel A controlling for the change in 
household financial assets. However, since household financial assets also contain deposits, which is the dependent 
variable, we include the change in household financial assets minus deposits (or insured deposits, which are 
typically held by households) to rule out a mechanical correlation in the time-series, and to capture the effect of 
household financial assets alone. Formally, if Reserves ( )
OtherThanDeposits
t t t ttD HA Dαγ ε= + ++ is the true model, then 
we can recover γ  by estimating Reserves
11
OtherThanDeposits
t tt tD HAαγ π
γγ
= ++
−−
. We find in Online Appendix Table 
A4 that the coefficient on household assets less deposits is not statistically significant, while the coefficient estimate 
on reserves increases.  
29 The costs of repeated emergency liquidity infusion include  distortions in the price of liquidity, windfall gains to 
those who have access to central bank-provided liquidity or who can game or time central bank liquidity intervention, 
and distortions in private sector credit and investment when the private sector knows the central bank will be available 
whenever liquidity bets go sour. See Acharya, Shin and Yorulmazer (2011), Diamond and Rajan (2012), or Farhi and 
Tirole (2012) on the theoretical modeling of such collective moral hazards.     
===== PAGE 35 =====
34 
 
Our concern is that Fed balance-sheet expansion followed by contraction can create a large 
and persistent  mismatch. The problem then is not just temporary intra-day demand-supply 
mismatches for reserves (which undoubtedly will increase) but that the entire banking system will 
have a higher stock of claims on potential liquidity issued by banks – that is, the aggregate bank 
balance sheet is more levered with demandable claims and fewer supporting reserves. By raising 
the risk of dash-for-cash episodes, including the possibility the Fed may int ervene too little, too 
late, and not reach the right places, the persistent mismatch may serve as an overhang to activity 
(see Acharya and Rajan ( 2024)). Unless all participants are confident of repeated, adequate, and 
timely Fed intervention, seemingly the best way for the Fed to eliminate the overhang of liquidity 
risk is through a durable infusion of additional reserves into the market, that is, a central bank 
balance sheet expansion. But such an intervention then raises the specter  of further liquidity 
dependence, our key concern, as commercial banks issue further claims on liquidity in response.   
In other words, unless Fed’s balance sheet expansion is quickly and predictably reversed, 
commercial bank responses will demand a bigger central bank balance sheet for longer. However, 
temporary intervention may not alleviate concerns  unless banks dial down liquidity mismatches . 
The Fed may be trapped into accommodating liquidity dependence  of banks . There are other 
consequences; if the central bank is forced to resume QE in a time of above-target inflation, it may 
send confusing signals to the market . F resh QE  may also foster irresponsible fiscal policy if 
government finances are already strained, as seems currently the case in industrial economies.     
   Our findings have implications for monetary policy. By buying long-term bonds from the 
market using reserves, the Federal Reserve expects to compress the yield on long-term financing, 
thereby facilitating the financing of long- term projects (also known as “portfolio rebalancing”) . 
However, we find that banks have been shortening the maturity of their liabilities over the period 
of QE, making it harder for them to finance long-term loans without incurring costly asset/liability 
maturity mismatches. In other words, the maturity-shortening effect of QE on the bank’s liability 
side may limit any maturity -lengthening effects of QE on the bank asset side,  dampening the 
effectiveness of the portfolio-rebalancing channel (see Greenlaw et al., 2018, and Fabo et al., 2021 
for more questions on the effectiveness of QE).30  
                                                 
30 We show in Online Appendix Table A 12 that an exogenous increase in bank’s reserves affects its loan growth 
adversely, echoing the findings of Diamond, Jiang and Ma (2021), who document a restraining effect of quantitative 
easing on non-reserve assets of banks, and of Altavilla, Rostagno and Schumacher (2023), who find that only the non-
borrowed portion of reserves (i.e., reserves not funded with deposits) is positively related to bank loans. 
===== PAGE 36 =====
35 
 
 7. Further Research and Conclusion. 
Our work suggests that stress may build when the elasticity of liquidity claims to reserves 
is much higher during QE than QT, leaving large liquidity mismatches  – our Claims to Liquidity 
can be a useful measure both in the aggregate and in subsets of banks of impending aggregate 
tightness. However, large changes in monetary policy interest rates can also have an independent 
effect on deposit (and reserve) withdrawals from banks. And, of course, depositor panics may have 
to be offset by Fed-cum-Treasury solvency and liquidity interventions. Arguably, we have seen all 
this since the pandemic QT started in 2022. A fter the mini-panic of March 2023, subsequent QT 
seems to have eaten into money market reserve holdings rather than bank reserve holdings, perhaps 
because of generous Fed lender of last resort support to banks . Our primary insight that we need 
to incorporate private bank behavior  to understand the financial stability implications of the 
waxing and waning of central bank balance sheet size will likely hold up.  
Policy measures should also ensure the flow of liquidity between banks to mitigate liquidity 
stress when it materializes. In particular, supervisors should be particularly wary of ratcheting up 
implicit liquidity requirements (see Nelson (2019, 2022)) as the fear of such supervisory action in 
response to a bank’s intra-day overdrafts can accentuate the phenomenon of reserve hoarding by 
surplus banks (Bank of England (2022), Copeland, Duffie, and Yang (2021)).  
Finally, our evidence is based entirely around the balance-sheet decisions of the Federal 
Reserve. What about other systems? In recent work, Angeloni et al. (2024) document that the 
positive relation of banking sector reserves to uninsured demandable deposits that we 
documented for the US holds up also for the Eurozone countries. Using available data from 
balance-sheets of stress-tested and systemically important banks since 2010, they also show that 
in the Eurozone too, “small” banks (based on below median assets on average over the sample 
period 2010-23) grew their transactions deposits faster than the “large” banks (above median 
assets). Large banks also reduced their transaction deposits more once reserves decreased.  Are 
drivers of these patterns in Europe similar to those we documented for the US banks, and what 
compensating regulations have allowed European banks to fare better during the recent period of 
rate hike and QT? Du, Forbes and Luzzetti (2024) finds only a modest impact of QT in seven 
advanced economies on overnight funding spreads though, as we argue, the US banking turmoil 
of March 2023 was in part a consequence of QT. Once the dust has settled, more data will be 
available to help us understand all this. More research is clearly warranted. 
===== PAGE 37 =====
36 
 
References 
 
Acharya, Viral V., Robert Engle, Max imilian Jager and Sascha Steffen, “Why Did Bank Stocks Crash 
During COVID-19?”, Review of Financial Studies, 2024, Volume 37, Issue 9, Pages 2627-2684 
Acharya, Viral V., Manasa Gopal, Maximilian Jager and Sascha Steffen, 2024, “Shadow Always Touches 
the Feet: Implications of Bank Credit Lines to Non-Bank Financial Intermediaries”, working paper, NYU 
Stern School of Business.  
Acharya, Viral V. and Nada Mora, "A Crisis of Banks as Liquidity Providers",  Journal of Finance, 2015, 
70(1), 1-44. 
Acharya Viral V., and Raghuram Rajan, “Liquidity, liquidity everywhere, not a drop to use : Why flooding 
banks with central bank reserves may not expand liquidity” , Journal of Finance, 2024, Volume 79, Issue 
5, 2943-2991. 
Acharya, Viral V., Hyun -Song Shin and Tanju Yorulmazer, "Crisis Resolution and Bank Liquidity,"  
Review of Financial Studies, 24(6), 2011, 2166-2205. 
Acharya, Viral V. and Sascha Steffen, 2020.  “The risk of being a fallen angel and the corporate dash for 
cash in the midst of COVID” Review of Corporate Finance Studies, Volume 9, Issue 3, Pages 430-471. 
Altavilla, Carlo, Massimo Rostagno and Julian Schumacher (2023) “Anchoring QT: Liquidity, Credit and 
Monetary Policy Implementation,” Working paper, Center for Economic Policy Research. 
 
Angeloni, Ignazio, Stijn Claessens, Amit Seru, Sascha Steffen and Beatrice Weder di Mauro. Much Money, 
Little Capital, and Few Reforms: The 2023 Banking Turmoil, 2024 Geneva Report. 
Bank of England (2022), “The Prudential Liquidity Framework: Supporting Liquid Asset Usability”, 
Discussion Paper 1/22. 
Barr, Michael (2023), “ Review of the Federal Reserve’s Supervision and Regulation of Silicon Valley 
Bank”, https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/files/svb-review-20230428.pdf 
Caglio, Cecilia, Jennifer Dlugosz, and Marcelo Rezende (2023), “ Flight to Safety in the Regional Bank 
Crisis of 2023”, working paper, Federal Reserve Board.   
Carletti, Elena,  Filippo De Marco, Vasso Ioannidou ∗, Enrico Sette (2021) “Banks as Patient Lenders: 
Evidence from a Tax Reform,” Journal of Financial Economics, 141, 6-26.  
 
Cipriani, Marco, Thomas Eisenbach, and Anna Kovner (2024), “Tracing Bank Runs in Real Time”, Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York Staff Report No 1104.  
Copeland, Adam, Darrell Duffie and Yilin (David) Yang (2021) “Reserves Were Not So Ample After All”, 
Working Paper, Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Cragg, J.G. and S.G. Donald (1993) “Testing Identifiability and Specification in Instrumental Variable 
Models,” Econometric Theory, 9, 222 – 240.  
D’Avernas Adrien and Quentin Vandeweyer (2021) “Intraday Liquidity and Money Market Dislocations”, 
Working Paper, University of Chicago Booth School of Business. 
===== PAGE 38 =====
37 
 
Diamond, D W and R G Rajan, (2012), "Illiquid Banks , Financial Stability, and Interest Rate Policy," 
Journal of Political Economy, 120(3): 552 - 591.  
Diamond, William, Zhengyang Jiang, and Yiming Ma (2021), “The Reserve Supply Channel of 
Unconventional Monetary Policy”, SSRN working paper. 
Drechsler, Itam ar, Alexi Savov, and Philipp Schnabl (2017) "The deposits channel of monetary 
policy." The Quarterly Journal of Economics 132, no. 4: 1819-1876. 
Drechsler, Itamar, Alexi Savov, and Philipp Schnabl (2021)  "Banking on Deposits: Maturity 
Transformation without Interest Rate Risk." Journal of Finance.  
Du, Wenxin, Krisin Forbes, and Matthew Luzzetti (2024) “ Quantitative Tightening Around the Globe: 
What Have We Learned?” Prepared for the US Monetary Forum, 28 February 2024. 
Fabo, Brian, Martina Jancokova, Elisabeth Kempf, and Lubos Pastor, (2021), “Fifty Shades of QE: 
Comparing Findings of Central Bankers and Academics”, SSRN working paper.  
Farhi, Emmanuel and Jean Tirole 2012. “Collective Moral Hazard, Maturi ty Mismatch, and Systemic 
Bailouts.” American Economic Review 102: 60–93. 
Gatev, Evan and Philip Strahan 2006. “Banks' Advantage in Hedging Liquidity Risk: Theory and Evidence 
from the Commercial Paper Market”, Journal of Finance, Volume 61, Issue 2, Pages 867-892. 
Greenlaw, D.; Hamilton, J. D.; Harris, E. S.; and West, K. D. (2018) “A Skeptical View of the Impact of 
the Fed’s Balance Sheet.” Working Paper.  Available at https://research.chicagobooth.edu/ -
/media/research/igm/docs/2018-usmpf-report.pdf. 
Gruenberg, Martin, (2023)
, On the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on Long-Term Debt, August 29 
2023: https://www.fdic.gov/news/speeches/2023/spaug2923a.html 
Ivashina, Victori a and David Scharfstein (2010) “ Bank Lending During the Financial Crisis of 2008" , 
Journal of Financial Economics 97 (3): 319–338. 
Jiang, Erica, Gregor Matvos, Tomasz Piskorski and Amit Seru (2023) “Monetary Tightening and U.S. Bank 
Fragility in 2023: Mark to Market Losses and Uninsured Deposit Rusn,” NBER Working Paper #31048. 
Kashyap, Anil (2020), “The Dash for Cash and the Liquidity Multiplier: Lessons from March 2020”, speech 
at the LBS AQR Asset Management Institute Virtual Summit. 
Kashyap, Anil, Raghuram G Rajan and Jeremy Stein (2002) “Banks as Liquidity Providers: An Explanation 
for the Coexistence of Lending and Deposit-Taking”, Journal of Finance, LVII(1), 33-73.  
Kleibergen, F. and Paap, R.  2006.  Generalized Reduced Rank Tests Using the Singular Value 
Decomposition.  Journal of Econometrics, Vol. 133, pp. 97-126. 
 
Leonard, Deborah, Antoine Martin, and Simon M. Potter (2017), “How the Fed Changes the Size of its 
Balance Sheet”, Liberty Street Economics, Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Li, Lei, Philip Strahan and Song Zhang, “Banks as Lenders of First Resort: Evidence from the COVID-19 
Crisis,” Review of Corporate Finance Studies, Volume 9, Issue 3, November 2020, Pages 472–500. 
 
Lopez-Salido David and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen (2022) “Reserve Demand and Balance-sheet Runoff”, 
Working paper, Federal Reserve Board of Governors. 
===== PAGE 39 =====
38 
 
Meiselman, Ben S., Stefan Nagel and Amiyatosh Purnanadam (2023) “Judging Banks’ Risk by the Profits 
They Report”, Working Paper, University of Chicago Booth School of Business. 
 
Nelson, Bill (2019) “Fed’s Balance Sheet Can and Should Get Much Smaller”, Remarks at Brookings 
Symposium on Repo Market Disruption, Bank Policy Institute.  
 
Nelson, Bill (2022) “More Taxis Sitting Idle”, Blog, https://bpi.com/more-taxis-sitting-idle/
 
Ruan, Tianyue and Siddharth Vij (2024) “Size-Based Regulation and Bank Fragility: Evidence from the 
Wells Fargo Asset Cap,” Working Paper, National University of Singapore. 
 
Rajan, Raghuram (2006) “Has Financial Development Made the World Riskier?”, European Financial 
Management, 12(4), pp. 499-533. 
 
Schwert, Michael. "Bank capital and lending relationships." The Journal of Finance 73, no. 2 (2018): 787-
830.Stulz, René M., Alvaro G. Taboada, and Mathijs A. Van Dijk. The Determinants of Bank Liquid Asset 
Holdings. No. w30340. National Bureau of Economic Research, 2022. 
Stock, James, and Motohiro Yogo. "Asymptotic distributions of instrumental variables statistics with many 
instruments." Identification and inference for econometric models: Essays in honor of Thomas 
Rothenberg 6 (2005): 109-120. 
Yankov, Vladimir, 2020, The liquidity coverage ratio and corporate liquidity management, FEDS  Notes, 
2020-02.
===== PAGE 40 =====
 
 
39 
Figure 1.  Quantitative Easing, Quantitative Tightening, and Commercial Bank Balance 
Sheets 
 
The figure below shows how the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet expansion during quantitative easing (QE) affects  
commercial bank balance sheets.  
 
Panel A: QE – Purchase from Banks 
Panel A shows the Fed purchasing securities from banks, with banks effectively swapping eligible securities for 
reserves. In this case, commercial bank balance sheets do not expand with the expansion of the Fed balance sheet. 
 
 

===== PAGE 41 =====
 
 
40 
Panel B: QE – Purchase from Non-banks/public  
Panel B shows the Fed purchasing eligible securities directly from non-banks/public. In this case, commercial bank 
balance sheets expand with the expansion of the Fed balance sheet as the non-banks deposit the Fed payment in the 
bank. 
 
 
 
 
Panel C: QT – Asset Sale to Banks, No Contraction in Bank Balance Sheets 
Panel C shows the asset swap  with banks during quantitative tightening (QT). As Fed balance sheet shrinks, 
commercial bank deposits do not shrink in this case. 
 
  

===== PAGE 42 =====
 
 
41 
Figure 2. Time-Series of Aggregate Reserves, Deposits, and Credit Lines 
 
The panels plot credit lines (left y -axis), deposits (right y-axis) and reserves (left y-axis) as a percentage of gross 
domestic product (GDP) for all commercial banks  using data from the Federal Reserve ’s Financial Accounts of the 
United States (Flow of Funds).  
 
Panel A. Credit Lines, Deposits, and Reserves as percentage of GDP 
 
The vertical lines correspond to the beginning of the different Federal Reserve QE / QT phases: (1) Nov 2008 (QE I), 
(2) Nov 2010 ( QE II), (3) Nov 2012 (QE III ), (4) Oct 2014 ( Post QE III), (5) QT period, (6) Sept 2019 (P andemic 
QE) (7) March 2022 (Pandemic QT). 
 
 
 
  
 
  

===== PAGE 43 =====
 
 
42 
Panel B. Uninsured and Insured Demand and Time Deposits, and Reserves as percentage of GDP 
 
We plot demandable (demand, savings, and money market deposits) and time deposits partitioned into insured and 
uninsured deposits using FDIC’s Call Reports Data for the period 2008Q4-2023Q4. Computation of Insured and 
Uninsured Domestic Deposits are based on call report schedule RC-O. Insured domestic deposits are defined as 
deposits lying below the FDIC deposit insurance thresholds of $100,000 before 2006Q1, non-retirement accounts 
below $100,000 and retirement accounts below $250,000 between 2006Q1-2009Q2 and $250,000 after 2009Q2. 
Split of time deposits into Insured vs. Uninsured Deposits are based on the aforementioned deposit insurance 
thresholds ($100k before 2010Q1 and $250k thereafter) in schedule RC-E.  Demandable Domestic Insured and 
Uninsured deposits are estimated by taking the difference between Total Domestic Insured/Uninsured Deposits and 
Domestic Insured/Uninsured Time Deposits respectively. Uninsured demandable deposits are domestic uninsured 
demand deposits plus non-interest-bearing foreign deposits. Uninsured time deposits are domestic uninsured time 
deposits plus interest-bearing foreign deposits. 
  
 
 
 
  

===== PAGE 44 =====
 
 
43 
 
Panel C: Share of Uninsured and Insured Demandable Deposits to Total Deposits 
We plot the share of Domestic Uninsured Demandable Deposits and Domestic Insured Demandable Deposits to total 
domestic deposits estimated using US Call Reports annually for the time period 2001-2023. Foreign deposits are 
excluded from this chart.  
 
 
Panel D: Ratio of Deposits to Household Financial Assets  
We plot the ratio of aggregate US household deposits to household financial assets (series BOGZ1FL194090005Q) 
from Flow of Funds for the period Oct 1987-Dec 2023.  
 
 
 

===== PAGE 45 =====
 
 
44 
Figure 3: The Rise in Uninsured Demandable Deposits 
 
Panel A: Uninsured Demandable Deposits/Assets 
We plot the ratio of aggregate uninsured demandable deposits to aggregate b ook assets of banks that fall within the 
size buckets of (i) Bank Assets above $250bn (ii) Bank Assets between $50-250bn and (iii) Bank Assets below $50bn, 
with Bank Assets measured in 2014Q3. Uninsured demandable deposits are defined as the difference between Total 
Uninsured Deposits and Uninsured Time Deposits plus Non-interest Bearing Foreign Deposits. Bank Assets refer to 
Total Book Assets. Bank Reserves refer to balances due at Federal Reserve Banks. Eligible assets consist of Treasury 
and Agency securities that were eligible for swap against reserves in at least one Quantitative Easing round between 
2008Q4-2021Q4. The sample ranges 2008Q4 to 2023Q4. All data is sourced from FDIC's Call Reports.   
 
 
 
Panel B: Uninsured Demandable Deposits/(Reserves + Eligible Assets) 
 
Panel B plots the ratio of aggregate uninsured demandable deposits to the aggregate sum of bank reserves and 
eligible assets of banks within the aforementioned size buckets. 
 

===== PAGE 46 =====
 
 
45 
Figure 4. Claims toPotential Liquidity: (Credit Lines + Uninsured Demandable 
Deposits)/(Reserves  + Eligible Assets) 
We plot the time -series of Claims to Potential Liquidity, which is the ratio of the sum of aggregate undrawn credit 
lines and uninsured demandable deposits to the sum of reserves and eligible assets between 2010Q1-2023Q4, with 
data (field) obtained for each component from Call Reports: Off -balance sheet unused lo ans or credit lines 
(RCFDJ457); Uninsured demandable deposits, obtained by subtracting time deposits of more than $250,000 ($100,000 
before 2010Q1) from total uninsured deposits, the latter being estimated from schedule RC- O of Call Reports, to 
which we ad d non -interest bearing foreign deposits.  Reserves are from RCFD0090 (RCON0090 if missing), and 
Eligible assets consist of Treasury and Agency securities that were eligible for  swap with the Fed for reserves in at 
least one quantitative easing round between 2008Q4-2023Q1. We set the value of reserves and credit lines to zero for 
a given quarter if they are missing. All data are from FDIC’s Call Reports. 
 
 
Panel A: Claims to Potential Liquidity for the aggregate banking sector 
 
 
 
 
  

===== PAGE 47 =====
 
 
46 
Panel B: Claims to Potential Liquidity by bank size categories 
 
We plot Claims to Potential Liquidity aggregated within bank size categories of  (i) Bank Assets above $250bn (ii) 
Bank Assets between $50-250 bn, and (iii) Bank Assets below $50bn, banks classified by assets as of 2014Q3.   
 
 
Panel C: Density of Claims to Potential Liquidity, for different QE and QT periods 
Panel C plots the density of distribution of the ratio in different QE and QT periods. QEI-III refers to the period 
2010Q1-2014Q3, Post QE-III period refers to 2014Q4-2017Q3, and QT period refers to 2017Q4-2019Q3. 
 
 
 
  

===== PAGE 48 =====
 
 
47 
Figure 5. Return on Equity and Claims to Potential Liquidity Ratio by Bank Size 
The panels are bin- scatter plots of log of bank Return on Equity (ROE) on the log of Claims to Potentia l Liquidity 
ratio for different bank size sub samples. The Claims to Potential Liquidity ratio is defined as the sum of off-balance 
sheet credit lines and uninsured demandable deposits divided by the sum of reserves and eligible assets (as in Figure 
4). We scale the Claims ratio with its Standard Deviation in every sub-sample. ROE is the ratio of Income before Tax 
to Total Bank Book Equity. Data are sourced from FDIC Call Reports. We control for bank and time fixed effects.  
 
The left plot is for smaller banks i.e. banks with assets less than $250 billion in 2014Q3. The right panel is for large 
banks with more than $250 billion in assets. 
Panel A: QE-I-III 
Panel A plots data for 2010Q1-2014Q3 (QE-I-III). 
 
 
 
Panel B: Post-QE + QT 
Panel B plots data for 2014Q4-2019Q3 (Post QE III + QT). 
 

===== PAGE 49 =====
 
 
48 
 
Panel C: Pandemic QE 
Panel C plots data for 2019Q4-2021Q4 (Pandemic QE). 
 
 
 
 
 
  

===== PAGE 50 =====
 
 
49 
Figure 6. Liquidity Risk and Fragility: The COVID Shock  
 
Panel A. Implications for bank stock returns (1st January to 30th June, 2020) 
Panel A shows the difference in stock return performance (in percentage point s) between banks with high vs. low 
Claims on Potential Liquidity ratio over the 1 st January to 30 th June 2020 period. We measure Claims to Potential 
Liquidity ratio as (Undrawn Credit Lines +  Uninsured Demandable Deposits)/(Eligible Assets + Reserves) as of 
December 31, 2019 and use a median split to distinguish between the two groups of banks. Stock returns data are from 
CRSP.       
 
 
  
 
 
Panel B. Gross drawdowns of credit lines (Q1 2020) 
Panel B plots Gross Drawdowns of credit lines to bank assets over the Q1 2020 period against the log Credit Lines 
to Potential Liquidity ratio defined as ln (Undrawn Credit Lines)/(Eligible Assets + Reserves) in 2019Q4. Gross 
Drawdowns are from Refinitiv LoanConnector.
 

===== PAGE 51 =====
 
 
50 
Figure 7: Dependence of Banks on Official Liquidity During 2019 to 2023 
 
Panel A 
Panel A plots the bank size-wise bar charts of “Other Borrowed Money” (RCFD3190) deflated by bank assets for the 
time period 2019Q1 -2023Q4. Other Bo rrowed Money includes Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) Advances and 
borrowings made from the Federal Reserve Bank. The bank-size groups are based on asset size in 2014Q3  
 
 
 
Panel B 
Panel B plots the bank size-wise summary bar-charts of “Fed Funds Borrowed” (RCONB993+RCFDB995) deflated 
by Assets in 2019Q4. Fed Funds Borrowed include inter-bank secured (including repo) and unsecured transactions. 
 

===== PAGE 52 =====
 
 
51 
Table 1. Aggregate Deposits and Credit Lines vs Reserves (Time-Series)  
This table reports the results from time -series regression of changes in deposits or credit lines on changes in reserves. The variables in Columns (1) to (4) are  
changes in the natural logarithm of  total deposits (1), demand deposits (2), tim e deposits (3) and credit lines (4) as dependent variables.  Columns (5) to (8) uses 
changes in the levels of the same variables. All data are from the Federal Reserve Economic Database (FRED). Standard errors (Newey -West) account for auto-
correlation up to 4 quarters and are reported in parentheses. The sample ranges from 2008Q4-2021Q4. * p<0.1, ** p<0.05, *** p<0.01 
 
 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) 
 ∆Ln(Deposits) ∆Ln(Demanda
ble Deposits) 
∆Ln(Time 
Deposits) 
∆Ln(Credit 
Lines) ∆ Deposits ∆Demandable 
Deposits 
∆Time 
Deposits ∆Credit Lines 
∆Ln(Reserves) 0.143*** 0.191*** -0.362*** 0.0815**     
 (0.0384) (0.0563) (0.105) (0.0309)     
         
Ln(Reserves)t-4 0.0490*** 0.0110 -0.00475 0.0889***     
 (0.0140) (0.0220) (0.0792) (0.0329)     
         
∆Reserves     1.011*** 1.376*** -0.277*** 0.149*** 
     (0.250) (0.327) (0.0627) (0.0414) 
         
Reservest-4     0.328*** 0.342*** 0.0795 0.147*** 
     (0.0724) (0.0836) (0.0693) (0.0403) 
         
Constant -0.318*** -0.00782 0.0370 -0.621** -90.77 -17.77 -168.2 -164.5* 
 (0.106) (0.166) (0.606) (0.254) (178.1) (160.7) (158.5) (91.83) 
N 49 49 49 49 49 49 49 49 
R-Sq      0.63      0.63      0.57      0.23      0.67      0.69      0.59      0.42 
S.E.(# Lags) Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
 
  
===== PAGE 53 =====
 
 
52 
Table 2. Aggregate Uninsured and Insured Deposits vs Reserves (Time-Series) 
We report the results from time-series regression of changes in deposits of different types on changes in reserves. Computation of Insured and Uninsured Domestic 
Deposits are based on the FDIC Call Report schedule RC-O. Insured deposits are defined as deposits lying below the FDIC deposit insurance thresholds of $100,000 
before 2006Q1, non-retirement accounts below $100,000 and retirement accounts below $250,000 between 2006Q1-2009Q2, and $250,000 after 2009Q2. Split of 
Time Deposits into Insured vs. Uninsured Deposits are based on the aforementioned deposit insurance thresholds ($100k before 2010Q1 and $250k thereafter) in 
schedule RC-E. Demandable Insured and Uninsured Domestic Deposits are estimated by taking the difference between Total Insured/Uninsured Domestic Deposits 
and Insured/Uninsured Time Deposits respectively.  Uninsured demandable de posits are obtained by adding non -interest-bearing foreign deposits to uninsured 
domestic demand deposits. Uninsured time deposits are obtained by adding interest-bearing foreign deposits to uninsured domestic time deposits. Columns (1) to 
(4) use changes in the natural logarithm of uninsured deposits (1), insured deposits  (2), uninsured demandable (3) and insured demandable deposit  (4) as dependent 
variables. Columns (5) to (8) uses changes in the level of the same variables . Standard errors (Newey-West) account for auto-correlation up to 4 quarters and are 
reported in parentheses. The sample ranges from 2008Q4-2021Q4. * p<0.1, ** p<0.05, *** p<0.01  
 
 
  (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) 
  ∆Ln(Uninsured 
Deposits) 
∆Ln(Insured 
Deposits) 
∆Ln(Uninsured 
Demandable 
Deposits) 
∆Ln(Insured 
Demandable 
Deposits) 
∆Uninsured 
Deposits 
∆Insured 
Deposits 
∆Uninsured 
Demandable  
Deposits 
∆Insured 
Demandable 
Deposits 
∆Ln(Reserves) 0.174*** 0.0490 0.163* 0.140** 
    
  (0.0482) (0.0514) (0.0908) (0.0631) 
    
  
        
Ln(Reserves)t-4 0.0921 -0.0188 -0.0399 -0.00274 
    
  (0.0630) (0.0330) (0.0943) (0.0445) 
    
  
        
∆Reserves 
    
0.728*** 0.263 0.740*** 0.479*** 
  
    
(0.148) (0.158) (0.161) (0.160) 
  
        
Reservest-4 
    
0.268* 0.00354 0.128 0.0809 
  
    
(0.141) (0.0894) (0.0999) (0.0859) 
  
        
Constant -0.640 0.198 0.410 0.0870 -221.3 346.7 96.05 174.9 
  (0.484) (0.256) (0.724) (0.346) (329.1) (217.6) (225.2) (207.4) 
N 49 49 49 49 49 49 49 49 
R-sq      0.28      0.12      0.20      0.27      0.55      0.19      0.59      0.42 
S.E.(# Lags) Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
Newey-West 
(4) 
 
===== PAGE 54 =====
53 
 
 
 
Table 3: Effect of Reserves on Deposit Quantities – First Stage, OLS and Second Stage 
The table shows the first stage, the OLS and the second -stage of 2SLS IV regressions of ∆Ln(Deposit s) ( the 
dependent variable ) against ∆Ln(Reserves). Deposit and reserve data are sourced from FDIC’s Call Reports . 
Reserves are cash and balances due from Federal Reserve Banks at the consolidated bank-level (RCFD0090). We 
supplement the Reserves variable with the field at depository institution level (RCON0090) if the former field is 
missing.  Panel A shows the first -stage of ∆Ln(Reserves) instrumented by reserve instrument   (zR1it): Growth in 
Aggregate Reserves in quarter t × Lagged Share in Reserves, averaged over previous 4 quarters.  
 
All specifications control for Time-FE, lagged Ln(assets), Equity-Capital Ratio, Net Income/Assets, indicator for 
Primary Dealers and Ln(Reserves) lagged by five quarters . Columns (1) represent the regressions on the overall 
sample ranging 200 8 Q4 – 2021 Q4. Columns (2) represent QE I- III + Pandemic QE  of 2008Q4 - 2014Q3 & 
2019Q4-2021Q4. Columns (3) represent the QEI-III period: 2008Q4 - 2014Q3. Columns (4) show results for the 
Post QE III and QT period 2014Q4 - 2019Q3. Standard errors are two-way clustered at the bank and time level.   
Newey-West SE adjusted for autocorrelation up to 4 quarters are also reported for OLS.  Stock & Yogo (S&Y) 
weak ID test critical values with 10% maximal IV size for the first-stage are reported below the F-stats.  * p<0.1, 
** p<0.05, *** p<0.01 
 
Panel A: First Stage 
 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
 ∆Ln(Reserves) 
Ln(Reserves_t/Rese
rves_t-1) × Lagged 
Share in Agg. 
Reserves over 4Q 
13.14*** 
(0.722) 
12.54*** 
(0.594) 
12.67*** 
(0.606) 
25.87** 
(12.30) 
 
N 81892 51062 43236 30830 
Kleibergen-Paap F-
stat 
1039.24 3341.34 614.27   4.41 
F-stat  132358415.9 578625.9 193052.1 28.30 
S&Y 10% maximal 
IV size 
16.38 16.38 16.38 16.38 
Period Overall QE I-III +  
Pandemic QE 
QE I-III Post QE III + QT 
 2008Q4-2021Q4 2008Q4-2014Q3, 
2019Q4-2021Q4 
2008Q4-2014Q3 2014Q4-2019Q3 
  
===== PAGE 55 =====
54 
 
 
 
Panels B and C: Second Stage 
 
Computation of Insured and Uninsured Domestic Deposits are based on call report schedule RC-O. Insured 
deposits are defined as deposits lying below the FDIC deposit insurance thresholds of $100,000 before 2006Q1, 
non-retirement accounts below $100,000 and retirement accounts below $250,000 between 2006Q1-2009Q2, 
and $250,000 after 2009Q2. Split of Time Deposits into Insured vs. Uninsured Domestic Deposits are based on 
the aforementioned deposit insurance thresholds ($100k before 2010Q1 and $250k thereafter) in schedule RC-E.  
Demandable Insured and Uninsured Domestic Deposits are estimated by taking the difference between Total 
Insured/Uninsured Domestic Deposits and Insured/Uninsured Domestic Time Deposits respectively. Uninsured 
demandable deposits are obtained by adding non-interest-bearing foreign deposits to uninsured domestic demand 
deposits. Uninsured time deposits are obtained by adding interest-bearing foreign deposits to uninsured domestic 
time deposits.  
 
Panel B: ∆Ln(Uninsured Demandable Deposits)  
 
Panel B.1: OLS 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
∆Ln(Reserves)  0.0284*** 0.0262*** 0.0264*** 0.0345*** 
 (0.00255) (0.00335) (0.00381) (0.00254) 
Newey-West s.e. (0.00177) (0.00239) (0.00267) (0.00205) 
          
N 73882 42556 34923 31326 
Panel B.2: IV 
∆Ln(Reserves)  0.205*** 0.196*** 0.197*** -0.253 
 (0.0177) (0.0148) (0.0161) (0.464)      
N 72431 42536 34911 29895 
 
 
Period Overall  
QE I-III +  
Pandemic QE QE I-III  Post QE III + QT  
 2008Q4-2021Q4 2008Q4-2014Q3, 
2019Q4-2021Q4 
2008Q4-2014Q3 2014Q4-2019Q3 
 
 
 
Panel C: ∆Ln(Time Deposits) 
 
 
In Panel C, the dependent variable is ∆Ln(Time Deposits) or (RCON6648+RCON2604 before 2009Q4) and  
(RCON6648 + RCONJ473 + RCONJ474 after 2009Q4). 
Panel C.1: OLS 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
∆Ln(Reserves)  0.0137*** 0.0133*** 0.0130*** 0.0160*** 
 (0.00131) (0.00174) (0.00189) (0.00125) 
Newey-West s.e. (0.00119) (0.00153) (0.00162) (0.00129) 
     
N 82616 50430 42733 31946 
Panel C.2: IV 
∆Ln(Reserves) -0.171*** -0.145*** -0.158*** 0.690 
 (0.0459) (0.0441) (0.0334) (0.646) 
     
N 81106 50555 42853 32612 
 
Period 
 
Overall 
 
QE I-III +  
Pandemic QE 
 
QE I-III 
 
Post QE III + QT 
 2008Q4-2021Q4 2008Q4-2014Q3, 
2019Q4-2021Q4 
2008Q4-2014Q3 2014Q4-2019Q3 
  
===== PAGE 56 =====
55 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Effect of Reserves on CD Spreads: First Stage and Second Stage 
The table shows the first stage (Panel A) and the second stage (Panel B) of 2SLS IV regressions of 3, 12, 18 and 24-month CD – Money Market (MM) savings spread against bank-
level Ln(Reserves). Panel A shows the first stage of Ln(Reserves)  and Ln(Deposits) instrumented respectively by Growth in Aggregate Reserves × Lagged Share in Reserves  
averaged over previous 4 quarters (zR1it) and Deposit Growth Instrument (zDit), with bank-level controls. Note Total Deposits contain domestic and foreign deposits at the bank-
level. Bank-level variables are sourced from FDIC’s Call Reports data. Reserves are cash and balances due from Federal Reserve Banks at the consolidated bank level (RCFD0090). 
We supplement the Reserve variable with the field at depository institution level (RCON0090) if the former field is missing.    All specifications control for  lagged Ln(Assets), 
Equity/Assets Ratio, Net Income/Assets, and Primary Dealer indicator,  along bank and time fixed effects. Standard errors are two-way clustered at the bank and time level. Stock 
& Yogo (S&Y) weak ID test critical values  with 10% maximal IV size for the first-stage are reported below the F -stats.  The sample period is 2008Q4 – 2021Q4. * p<0.1, ** 
p<0.05, *** p<0.01 
 
Panel A: First Stage  
 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) 
 Ln(Reserves) Ln(Reserves) Ln(Reserves) Ln(Reserves) Ln(Total 
Deposits) 
Ln(Total 
Deposits) 
Ln(Total 
Deposits) 
Ln(Total 
Deposits) 
 0.0775*** 0.0500 0.0782 0.119*** 0.0271*** 0.0212** 0.0239** 0.0193*** 
Deposit Growth 
Instrument 
(0.0262) (0.0444) (0.0485) (0.0254) (0.00425) (0.00833) (0.00932) (0.00557) 
         
 10.90*** 10.52*** 10.52*** -29.58 -0.0413 0.152 0.438 13.55 
Ln(Reserves_t/R
eserves_t-1) # 
Lagged Share in 
Agg. Reserves 
over 4Q 
(1.329) (1.332) (1.513) (34.22) (0.583) (0.917) (0.961) (12.27) 
N 81966 51170 43351 30796 122050 51804 43835 32058 
Kleibergen-Paap 
F-stat 
1932.7  31.96  58.19 2600.8 107.22  31.96  58.19 36947.7 
F-stat 142.46 1173.5 917.3   0.66 11586.1 9547.5 6172.1   0.66 
S&Y IV 10% 
maximal IV size 
7.03 7.03 7.03 7.03 7.03 7.03 7.03 7.03 
Hansen-J p-val  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 
 
Period 
 
Overall 
 
QE I-III + 
Pandemic QE 
 
QE I-III 
 
Post QE III + 
QT 
 
Overall 
 
QE I-III + 
Pandemic QE 
 
QE I-III 
 
Post QE III + 
QT 
 2008Q4-2021Q4 2008Q4-2014Q3 
2019Q4-2021Q4 
2008Q4-2014Q3 2014Q4-2019Q3 2008Q4-2021Q4 2008Q4-2014Q3 
2019Q4-2021Q4 
2008Q4-2014Q3 2014Q4-2019Q3 
===== PAGE 57 =====
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panels B: Second Stage 
 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
 3 month CD Rate - 
MM Savings Rate 
12 month CD Rate - 
MM Savings Rate 
18 month CD Rate - 
MM Savings Rate 
24 month CD Rate - 
MM Savings Rate 
 
Panel B.1 - Overall Period: 2008Q4 – 2021Q4 
Ln(Reserves) -0.177*** -0.0731** -0.280*** -0.138** 
 (0.0452) (0.0343) (0.103) (0.0538) 
     
N 58950 63432 52761 62513 
 
Panel B.2  - QE I-III + Pandemic QE: 2008Q4 – 2014Q3 & 2019Q4 – 2021Q4 
Ln(Reserves) -0.164*** -0.0558* -0.228* -0.114** 
 (0.0441) (0.0278) (0.112) (0.0543) 
     
N 37872 40491 33661 39863 
Panel B.3  - QE I-III: 2008Q4 – 2014Q3 
Ln(Reserves) -0.167*** -0.0505 -0.230** -0.117** 
 (0.0375) (0.0302) (0.109) (0.0504) 
     
N 33180 35311 29287 34716 
 
Panel B.4  – Post QE III + QT: 2014Q4-2019Q3 
Ln(Reserves) 0.526 0.0289 -0.240 0.288 
 (0.402) (0.707) (0.573) (0.676) 
     
N 21001 22860 19024 22571 
 
  
===== PAGE 58 =====
57 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. Effect of Reserves on Credit Line Originations: First Stage and Second Stage 
The table shows OLS and the second-stage of 2SLS IV regressions of the change in the amount of originated credit 
lines ∆Ln(Credit Lines) of IG-rated and Non-IG rated firms in the U.S. as the dependent variable against change 
in reserve holdings aggregated to the BHC level. Change is the contemporaneous level minus the level lagged by 
4 quarters. Reserve data is sourced from FDIC’s Call Reports, credit line originations  from the Refinitiv 
LoanConnector database. Reserves  are cash and balances due from Federal Reserve Banks at the consolidated 
bank-level (RCFD0090). We supplement the Reserves  variable with the field at depository institution level 
(RCON0090) if the former field is missing.  Columns (1) represent the regressions on the overall sample ranging 
2008 Q4 – 2021 Q4. Columns  (2) represent QE I-III + Pandemic QE  of 2008Q4 - 2014Q3 & 2019Q4 -2021Q4. 
Columns (3) represent the QEI-III period: 2008Q4 - 2014Q3. Columns (4) show results for the Post QE III and QT 
period: 2014Q4 - 2019Q3. We report the second stage where ∆Ln(Reserves) is instrumented by the BHC- level 
reserve instrument (zR1it): Growth in Aggregate Reserves × Average Lagged Share of the BHC in Reserves over 
the previous 4 quarters . All specifications control for Time-FE, lagged Ln(assets), Equity- Capital Ratio, Net 
Income/Assets, indicator for Primary Dealers and Ln(Reserves) lagged by five quarters.  Standard errors are 
clustered at the time level. Stock & Yogo (S&Y) weak ID test critical values with 10% (15%) maximal IV size for 
the first-stage are reported below the F-stats.   * p<0.1, ** p<0.05, *** p<0.01 
 
Panel A: First Stage 
Panel A presents the first-stage results for both the IG (A.1) and Non-IG (A.2) sub-samples.  
 
Panel A.1: IG Firms (1) (2) (3) (4) 
 ∆Ln(Reserves) 
zR1it 4.676*** 4.857*** 4.822*** 7.055 
 (0.979) (1.080) (1.177) (22.82)      
N 1189 724 543 465 
F-stat 17.82 17.74 16.07 3.887 
Kleibergen-Paap F-
Stat 
12.646 11.999 9.726 0.002 
S&Y 10% (15%) 
Max. IV size 
16.38 (8.96) 16.38 (8.96) 16.38 (8.96) 16.38 (8.96) 
Panel A.2: Non-IG 
Firms  (1) (2) (3) (4) 
 ∆Ln(Reserves)      
zR1it 5.967*** 6.197*** 6.206*** 16.81 
 (0.294) (0.378) (0.477) (24.44)      
N 1312 792 603 520 
F-stat 170.3 196.2 163.3 5.217 
Kleibergen-Paap F-
Stat 
224.762 150.27 86.797 0.496 
S&Y 10% (15%) Max. 
IV size 
16.38 (8.96) 16.38 (8.96) 16.38 (8.96) 16.38 (8.96) 
 
Period 
 
Overall 
 
QE I-III +  
Pandemic QE 
 
QE I-III 
 
Post QE III + QT 
 2008 Q4 – 2021 Q4  
2008Q4 – 2014Q3 & 
2019Q4 – 2021Q4 2008Q4 – 2014Q3  2014Q4-2019Q3  
 
  
===== PAGE 59 =====
58 
 
 
 
 
Panels B and C: Second Stage 
 
Panel B: IG-rated firms  
 
 
Panel B.1: OLS (1) (2) (3) (4) 
 ∆Ln(Credit Lines) 
∆Ln(Reserves)  -0.0493** -0.0484 -0.0290 -0.0442 
 (0.0206) (0.0348) (0.0370) (0.0874)      
N 1718 649 486 430 
Panel B.2: IV (1) (2) (3) (4) 
 ∆Ln(Credit Lines)      
∆Ln(Reserves) 0.223*** 0.197*** 0.192*** -29.44 
 (0.0581) (0.0652) (0.0552) (618.8)      
N 1079 649 486 430 
Period 
 
 
  
 
Overall 
 
 
2008 Q1 - 2021 Q4  
 
QE I-III +  
Pandemic QE 
 
2008Q4 - 2014Q3 & 
2019Q4 - 2021Q4 
QE I-III 
 
 
2008Q4 - 2014Q3  
Post QE III + QT 
  
 
2014Q4-2019Q3  
 
 
Panel C: Non-IG rated firms 
 
Panel C.1: OLS (1) (2) (3) (4) 
 ∆Ln(Credit Lines) 
∆Ln(Reserves)  -0.0417 -0.0636* -0.0606* 0.0450 
 (0.0295) (0.0313) (0.0344) (0.0755)      
N 1223 731 562 492 
Panel C.2: IV (1) (2) (3) (4) 
 ∆Ln(Credit Lines)      
∆Ln(Reserves) 0.228** 0.226** 0.237** 1.217 
 (0.101) (0.0991) (0.0979) (2.155) 
N  1223 731 562 492 
Period 
 
  
Overall 
  
 
2008 Q1 - 2021 Q4  
QE I-III +  
Pandemic QE 
 
2008Q4 - 2014Q3 & 
2019Q4 - 2021Q4 
QE I-III 
 
 
2008Q4 - 2014Q3  
Post QE III + QT 
 
 
2014Q4-2019Q3  
 
 
===== PAGE 60 =====
59 
 
 
 
 
Table 6. Claims to Liquidity and Fragility: March 2020 – COVID Shock  
This dependent variables in this table are U.S. banks’ excess stock returns over the 1/1/2020 – 2/28/2020 period (column 1) and the 3/1/2020 – 3/23/2020 period (columns (2)-
(4)) and indicator variables if a bank uses the discount window (DW) over the period 2020Q1-Q4 (columns (5)-(7)). The explanatory variables are the log of Claims to Potential 
Liquidity ratio (=(Off Balance Sheet Unused Credit Lines + Uninsured Demandable Deposits)/(Eligible Assets + Reserves)) as of December 31, 2019, or the log of Unused Credit 
Lines to Potential Liquidity ratio (= (Off Balance Sheet Unused Credit Lines)/(Eligible Assets + Reserves)), or the log of Uninsured Demandable Deposits to Potential Liquidity 
ratio (= (Uninsured Demandable Deposits)/(Eligible Assets + Reserves)). Excess Return over a period is measured as cumulative stock return at the BHC level net of S&P 500 
return over the same period estimated from CRSP data. Discount Window data is sourced from www.federalreserve.gov/regreform/discount-window.htm. Bank-level data from 
Call Reports is aggregated to the BHC level using FFIEC relationship table. Bank Reserves refer to balances due at Federal Reserve Banks. Eligible assets consist of Treasury 
and Agency securities that were eligible for swap with the Fed for reserves in at least one Quantitative Easing round between 2008Q4-2021Q4. Off balance sheet (BS) unused 
credit lines refers to field RCFDJ457 in Call Reports. We control for equity/assets, the log of total assets, the non-performing loans to loans ratio, loans/assets, primary dealer 
indicator and net income/assets in 2019Q4. Standard errors are in parentheses. The regressions also include size indicators and interactions of various claims to potential liquidity 
ratios with the size indicators, which are equal to one if bank assets in 2019Q4 are less than $250bn.  * p<0.1, ** p<0.05, *** p<0.01 
      (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 
 Pre-Covid Return Excess Returns 1(DW/Assets) 
 (1/1/2020-2/28/2020)  (3/1/2020-3/23/20)   (2020Q1-Q4)  
Ln(Claims to Potential Liquidity) 0.015*** -0.0342   -0.308**   
 (0.005) (0.0249)   (0.157)   
        
1{Bank Assets<=$250bn}  -0.0379 -0.0331 -0.0307 0.263*** 0.538*** 0.359*** 
  (0.0322) (0.0371) (0.0314) (0.100) (0.192) (0.128) 
        
1{Bank Assets<=$250bn} # Ln(Claims to Potential Liquidity)  0.0181   0.306*   
  (0.0240)   (0.157)   
        
Ln(Unused Credit Lines to Potential Liquidity)   -0.000740   -0.0986**  
   (0.00715)   (0.0470)  
        
1{Bank Assets<=$250bn} # Ln(Unused Credit Lines to Potential Liquidity)   -0.0183**   0.0995**  
   (0.00829)   (0.0470)  
        
Ln(Unins. Dem. Deposits to Potential Liquidity)    -0.0517   -0.406** 
    (0.0315)   (0.178) 
        
1{Bank Assets<=$250bn} # Ln(Unins. Dem. Deposits to Potential Liquidity)    0.0371   0.404** 
    (0.0309)   (0.179) 
        
N 309 310 304 309 3711 3457 3574 
R2 0.275 0.132 0.165 0.133 0.182 0.183 0.181 
===== PAGE 61 =====
60 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Claims to Liquidity and Fragility: March 2023 – The SVB Episode  
The dependent variables are Excess returns (col (1) - (4)), Change in Ln Uninsured Demandable Deposit (col (5) - (7)) and Change in Ln Other Borrowed Money balances (col(8) -(10)). 
Explanatory variables include banks’ claims to potential liquidity, and additionally, size indicators and interactions of claims to potential liquidity ratios with the size indicators (equal to one 
if bank assets in 2022Q4 <=$250bn). Excess returns are estimated as the bank’s cumulative return over a period net of the S&P 500 return over the indicated period.  Columns (5)-(10) use 
quarterly changes in the dependent variables  fort the time -period 2022Q1- 2023Q1. Uninsured Demandable Deposits are estimated from schedule RC -O of call reports by subtracting 
uninsured time deposits from total uninsured deposits and adding non- interest-bearing foreign deposits. Other borrowed money is from Call Reports (RCFD 3190) and includes FHLB 
advances and other borrowings made by banks for liquidity needs. Claims to Potential Liquidity  ratio is the (Off Balance Sheet Unused Credit Lines + Uninsured Demandable 
Deposits)/(Reserves + Eligible Assets). Unused Credit Lines to Potential Liquidity ratio is (Off Balance Sheet Credit Lines)/(Reserves + Eligible Assets). Uninsured Dem. Deposits to 
Potential Liquidity ratio is (Uninsured Demandable Deposits)/(Reserves + Eligible Assets). All specifications control for lagged Equity/Assets ratio, the log of total assets, Net Income/Assets, 
the NPL/Loans-Ratio, Loans/Assets and a Primary Dealer indicator.  Columns (5)-(10) control for Time-FE. Standard errors are in parentheses  and clustered by BHC. * p<0.1, ** p<0.05, 
*** p<0.01 
 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) 
 Excess Returns ∆Ln(Uninsured Dem. Deposits) ∆Ln(Other Borrowed Money) 
 01/03-
02/28/23 
03/01-03/13/23 2022Q1-2023Q1 
Ln(Claims to Potential Liquidity) 0.00961** 0.0392   0.127***   -0.527***   
 (0.00466) (0.0275)   (0.0436)   (0.178)   
           
1{Bank Assets <=$250bn}  -0.0892** -0.134*** -0.0993** 0.000567 -0.0976** -0.0397 0.0835 0.445*** 0.224** 
  (0.0427) (0.0478) (0.0429) (0.0426) (0.0446) (0.0419) (0.129) (0.100) (0.0940) 
           
1{Bank Assets <=$250bn} # Ln(Claims to Potential 
Liquidity) 
 -0.0544* 
(0.0280) 
  -0.139*** 
(0.0436) 
  0.528*** 
(0.177) 
  
           
Ln(Unused Credit Lines to Potential Liquidity)   0.0103 
(0.00880) 
  0.0307*** 
(0.0100) 
  -0.0656 
(0.0614) 
 
           
1{Bank Assets <=$250bn} # Ln(Unused Credit Lines to 
Potential Liquidity) 
  -0.00831 
(0.0100) 
  -0.0301*** 
(0.00977) 
  0.0681 
(0.0615) 
 
           
Ln(Unins. Dem Deposits to Potential Liquidity)    0.0541** 
(0.0274) 
  0.121* 
(0.0671) 
  -0.566*** 
(0.217) 
           
1{Bank Assets <=$250bn} # Ln(Uninss. Dem Deposits 
to Potential Liquidity) 
   -0.0709** 
(0.0280) 
  -0.137** 
(0.0672) 
  0.567*** 
(0.217) 
           
N 307 306 301 305 13690 13024 13690 7320 7048 7287 
R2 0.130 0.378 0.375 0.381 0.0491 0.0408 0.0512 0.0180 0.0186 0.0181 
 