
===== PAGE 1 =====
RESEARCH BRIEF • FEBRUARY 2022
Liquidity, Liquidity Everywhere, not a Drop  
to Use: Why Flooding Banks with Central Bank 
Reserves May Not Expand Liquidity
Based on BFI Working Paper No. 2022-19, “Liquidity, Liquidity Everywhere, not a Drop to Use: Why Flooding Banks with Central Bank 
Reserves May Not Expand Liquidity,” by Viral V. Acharya, NYU Stern School of Business; and Raghuram Rajan, Chicago Booth.  
This Brief was written by Acharya and Rajan for publication at VoxEU. 
KEY TAKEAWAYS
 ü Greater liquid holdings do not seem 
to make markets for liquidity more 
immune to liquidity shocks.
 ü In times of stress, the demand for 
liquidity can significantly rise and 
liquid commercial banks, desiring 
to maintain unimpeachable balance 
sheets, may provide only limited 
re-intermediation of liquidity and 
contribute significantly to liquidity 
shortages.
 ü Commercial banks do not fully 
internalize prospective stress 
before it occurs or take sufficient 
steps to avoid it. Consequently, 
central bank balance sheet 
expansion may even actually 
exacerbate the problem. 
 ü Further, the broader economy can 
be negatively impacted as this 
stress may attenuate any positive 
effects of central bank balance sheet 
expansion on economic activity.
Despite a significant expansion in central bank balance 
sheets, some markets like the US money market have 
experienced increasing interest rate volatility, including 
significant spikes in the repo rate, notably in September 
2019 (see Copeland, Duffie and Yang (2021), Correa, 
Du, and Liao (2021), D’Avernas and Vanderweyer (2021), 
and Yang (2021)).  This apparent disruption in money 
markets that depend intimately on the availability of 
liquidity seems puzzling when the cash and central bank 
reserves held by the US private sector at the end of 2019 
were around 4 times their holdings before the Global 
Financial Crisis in 2007. Greater liquid holdings do not 
seem to have made markets for liquidity more immune to 
liquidity shocks. Indeed, markets were disrupted yet again 
in March 2020 at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic 
and the banking system was found short in its ability to 
accommodate the demand for liquidity. In response, the 
Federal Reserve expanded its balance sheet yet more 
(see, for example, Kovner and Martin (2020)), buying 
financial assets from the private sector and placing large 
quantities of liquid reserves with it (or promising to do so). 
Where had all the prior liquidity gone?  
5757 S. University Ave. 
Chicago, IL 60637 
Main: 773.702.5599 
bfi.uchicago.edu
===== PAGE 2 =====
Our recent paper “Liquidity, Liquidity Everywhere, 
Not a Drop to Use: Why Flooding Banks with 
Central Bank Reserves May Not Expand Liquidity” 
(Acharya and Rajan, 2021) focuses on this question, 
not so much to explain the microstructure of interest 
rate spikes, but to analyze more general theoretical 
underpinnings of the consequences of central bank 
balance sheet expansion.  It seems natural that the 
liquid central bank reserves issued to finance central 
bank balance sheet expansion should enhance the 
supply of liquidity, bringing down illiquidity premia 
in the market, and reducing the cost to firms of 
financing. Yet this view neglects three key private 
sector responses. 
First, central banks effectively issue these reserves 
to commercial banks (henceforth “banks”), which 
have to finance them. For a variety of reasons, the 
best way for a bank to finance short-term assets 
is with short-term liabilities such as deposits. Such 
financing could initially happen near-automatically 
– the central banks buy financial assets from non-
banks, who deposit the proceeds in their banks, 
giving the commercial banks both reserves and 
offsetting deposits. In times of liquidity stress, this 
offsetting liability could claim some of the liquidity 
created by the central bank.
Indeed, the evidence suggests this is the case (see 
Exhibit 1). The Federal Reserve bought financial 
assets between November 2010 and June 2011 
(“QE II”), between September 2012 and October 
2014 (“QE III”), and between March 2020 to the end 
of 2020 (the Pandemic Intervention which is still 
continuing). Exhibit 1, put together from the Flow 
of Funds data, suggests that commercial banks 
increased their assets considerably over the same 
period – so central bank reserves did not simply 
substitute for existing bank assets. Furthermore, 
bank deposit issuance was a multiple of the increase 
in commercial bank holdings of reserve balances 
and repos in each case. Of course, banks may also 
have expanded their holdings of other liquid assets 
such as vault cash and securities over these periods, 
but the increase in deposits exceeds even these. 
Indeed, in both QEII and the Pandemic purchases, 
the increase in bank deposits exceeds the overall 
increase in bank assets, while in QE III, it is 80 
percent of the increase (the period of QE III was 
also one when bank loans went up considerably, 
along with bank liquid assets). In both QE III and the 
Pandemic Intervention, uninsured deposits account 
for the majority of the deposit financing. In Exhibit 
2, we plot the cumulative increase in outstanding 
reserves against the rise in uninsured deposits over 
the last two decades, which confirms this financing 
pattern cumulates across programs. These data 
inform our modeling choices. 
Second, the liquid reserves themselves get further 
encumbered. While a number of papers have 
focused on regulatory encumbrances such as 
capital requirements that inhibit banks’ use of 
reserves, encumbrances may also be endogenous. 
For example, banks with liquid assets sitting on their 
balance sheets want to earn returns to that liquidity. 
So they sell it – by offering contingent lines of credit 
or guaranteeing margin calls on speculation (see, for 
example, Anderson, Du, and Schlusche (2021)), so 
long as liquidity will be available when they need it. 
Unfortunately, they typically oversell liquidity relative 
to what is societally optimal. 
Third, and perhaps most novel, in times of 
liquidity stress healthy banks may see a valuable 
convenience yield to liquid reserves – for instance, 
because it is dry powder in case conditions worsen. 
Consequently, healthy banks may hoard liquidity 
rather than lending it out to stressed banks. A 
collateral benefit is that they avoid tainting their 
balance sheets by lending to stressed banks and 
may thereby also attract flight-to-safety deposits 
that leave these banks looking for a safe home. 
Put differently, new sources of demand as well 
as constraints on supply may offset the new 
supply of liquidity. Consequently, it is possible that 
central bank balance sheet expansion under some 
circumstances does not reduce illiquidity premia, 
but may even enhance them. Instead of enhancing 
financial stability, it makes the financial system 
more fragile. Rather than expanding real activity, 
it dis-incentivizes it. While these are extreme 
possibilities, the norm may be that central bank 
balance sheet expansion contributes much less 
to liquidity, financial stability, and real activity 
than suggested by an analysis that abstracts from 
these three considerations.1   
In our theoretical model (Acharya and Rajan, 2021), 
we assume the central bank wants to expand 
its balance sheet, buying financial assets from 
the public markets with newly issued reserves. 
We take any direct effect of the asset purchases 
1 Indeed, it has been hard to discern unambiguously the net macroeconomic effects of these interventions; see, for instance, Fabo, Jancokova, Kempf, and Pastor (2021).
2
Research Brief: “Liquidity, Liquidity Everywhere, not a Drop to Use: Why Flooding Banks with Central Bank Reserves May Not Expand Liquidity”  
Becker Friedman Institute at the University of Chicago · 1126 E. 59th Street, Chicago, IL 60637 · Main: 773.702.5599 · bfi.uchicago.edu 
===== PAGE 3 =====
Exhibit 1 · Incremental Depository Institution Balance Sheets
Note
Incremental Depository Institution Balance Sheets
QE II (Between November 2010 and June 2011)
QE III (Between September 2012 and October 2014)
Pandemic (Between March 2020 to end 2020)
Debt
Cash Bonds
94,351
-103,791
18,748
-11,639
194,070
60 -62,773
Securities Holding Company Investment 42,870
Loans Commercial Paper -46,539
Miscellaneous Loans -80,632
Repos
Reserves
Miscellaneous
Uninsured Deposits
Insured Deposits
-315,306
1,264,014
-534,919
Deposits/Total Liabilities 2.73361
Deposits/(Cash+Securities+Repos+Reserves 2.63361
Deposits/(Repos+Reserves)
Uninsured Deposits/(Uninsured+Insured Deposits
Uninsured Deposits/(Repos+Reserves)
3.99655
-2.93217
-0.73368
Deposits/Total Liabilities 0.80124
Deposits/(Cash+Securities+Repos+Reserves 1.43187
Deposits/(Repos+Reserves)
Uninsured Deposits/(Uninsured+Insured Deposits
Uninsured Deposits/(Repos+Reserves)
2.51177
3.69679
1.47179
ASSETS LIABILITIES
Debt
Cash Bonds
504,642
804,170
-64,076
-29,398
713,351
11,191 -112,030
Securities Holding Company Investment 332,381
Loans Commercial Paper -86,743
Miscellaneous Loans 108,019
Repos
Reserves
Miscellaneous
Uninsured Deposits
Insured Deposits
184,540
-810,496
2,528,429
ASSETS LIABILITIES
191,799 266,715
191,799 2,144,100
Deposits/Total Liabilities 1.03324
Deposits/(Cash+Securities+Repos+Reserves 1.20581
Deposits/(Repos+Reserves)
Uninsured Deposits/(Uninsured+Insured Deposits
Uninsured Deposits/(Repos+Reserves)
2.07736
1.17604
0.56612
Debt
Cash Bonds
1,041,056
289,404
272,661
179,821
1,282,417
15,843 26,083
Securities Holding Company Investment 202,606
Loans Commercial Paper 26,651
Miscellaneous Loans -227,272
Repos
Reserves
Miscellaneous
Uninsured Deposits
Insured Deposits
-125,790
1,317,938
1,719,650
ASSETS LIABILITIES
3,081,202 2,939,866
: Sheets were obtained from Flow of Funds data Z1.111 – Level Data: U.S.-Chartered Depository Institutions.
All entries under Assets and Liabilities are increments, i.e., changes, for that entry in Millions of Dollars; all ratios are increment or change in the numerator divided by that for the denominator. 
3
Research Brief: “Liquidity, Liquidity Everywhere, not a Drop to Use: Why Flooding Banks with Central Bank Reserves May Not Expand Liquidity”  
Becker Friedman Institute at the University of Chicago · 1126 E. 59th Street, Chicago, IL 60637 · Main: 773.702.5599 · bfi.uchicago.edu 
===== PAGE 4 =====
on economic activity as given, so as to focus on 
what happens to liquidity after that. We assume 
the reserves eventually find their way back to 
commercial bank balance sheets (so cash holdings 
with the public do not go up), and the banks 
optimally issue liabilities to finance them. Key to 
the analysis is the mix of how banks finance these 
reserves. In keeping with the evidence in Exhibits 
1 and 2, we assume that banks finance a large 
portion of the reserve expansion by issuing short-
term liabilities. We are agnostic as to why longer-
term financing (that is, capital) is costlier for banks, 
but assume functional forms that make it so. 
We also assume that after commercial banks get 
reserves, make loans, and set their capital structure 
to accord with these assets, there is a probability 
that the demand for liquidity in the real economy 
will increase significantly, and will be concentrated 
on some banks. Call these the stressed banks. We 
assume that their wholesale depositors, fearful 
of any loss, withdraw their cash in such states, 
increasing the stressed banks’ need for funds. A 
fraction of healthy banks will choose to become 
tainted by lending their reserves to stressed banks, 
making money on the lending. The remaining 
fraction of healthy banks will abstain from lending 
so as to be seen as safe, thereby attracting the 
flight-to-safety deposits fleeing stressed banks. 
To start with, we take the fraction of safe and 
tainted banks among healthy banks as given and 
endogenize it later. Finally, we assume that not all 
the central bank reserves held on commercial bank 
balance sheets can be used to pay withdrawers – 
some reserves are encumbered because regulators 
demand set-asides or the banks create further 
contingent claims on reserves. 
The financing of partially encumbered reserves 
with short-term deposits, coupled with reserve 
hoarding by some of the healthy banks that are 
recipients of flight-to-safety deposits, sets up an 
interesting dynamic when liquidity is stressed: 
loan rates in the interbank market can shoot up 
as stressed banks try and attract liquidity from 
healthy banks. Importantly, the extent of illiquidity, 
and therefore the premium paid on borrowing in 
this situation (which will also affect the fire-sale 
prices of illiquid financial assets), need not fall 
in the reserves the central bank issues ex ante. 
Indeed, under plausible circumstances, every 
additional dollar of reserves the central bank 
issues up front can increase the net demand for 
liquidity in situations of liquidity stress, and can 
increase the interbank borrowing premium. 
A higher anticipated bank borrowing rate in the 
future then cascades up front into a higher rate 
for term loans made by banks, lower investment 
by firms, and lower aggregate activity. Somewhat 
perversely, therefore, higher central bank reserve 
issuance can create more headwinds even to 
current activity by increasing future, and thus 
current, borrowing premia. Put differently, the 
expansion in available reserve assets may be 
outweighed by claims created on them, or more 
succinctly, the ex-ante supply of reserves affects 
the ex-post demand for them.
Importantly, individual banks take the expected rates 
in the interbank market as given, and do not take 
account of the effects of their financing or activity 
choices on those rates. Ex ante, if they financed 
their own reserve holdings with more long-term 
capital (as the social planner would desire), there 
would be less call on liquidity when the economy 
is liquidity stressed. However, such financing is not 
privately optimal (as suggested by Caballero and 
Krishnamurthy (2003), Lorenzoni (2008) and Stein 
(2012)), and not observed in practice. 
Consider the second contributor to liquidity stress, 
the extent of reserve encumbrance.  Why might 
only a fraction of a dollar set aside as reserves 
be available to pay out on a future date? Two 
possibilities are speculation and regulation. A bank 
holding highly liquid reserves, with the reserves 
being required only in situations of liquidity stress, 
will want to try and “sell” liquidity in all the states 
it does not need it, for instance, by backstopping 
the liquidity needs of firms or speculators for a fee. 
To the extent that such backstopping cannot be 
fine-tuned, it will spill over into the states where the 
economy is liquidity-stressed and there is a high 
value for liquidity. The amount of free liquidity in 
such states will shrink relative to the ex-ante size of 
In times of liquidity stress  
healthy banks may see a 
valuable convenience yield to 
liquid reserves—for instance, 
because it is dry powder 
in case conditions worsen. 
Consequently, healthy banks 
may hoard liquidity rather than 
lending it out to stressed banks.
4
Research Brief: “Liquidity, Liquidity Everywhere, not a Drop to Use: Why Flooding Banks with Central Bank Reserves May Not Expand Liquidity”  
Becker Friedman Institute at the University of Chicago · 1126 E. 59th Street, Chicago, IL 60637 · Main: 773.702.5599 · bfi.uchicago.edu 
===== PAGE 5 =====
the reserves.  Indeed, defaults on such speculative 
trades (or even the price impact of unwinding 
trades because of increasing haircuts or margins, 
see Aramonte, Schrimpf, and Shin (2021)) may be a 
source of ex-post contagion in the financial sector. 
To reduce such contagion, regulation of 
centralized clearing may require dealer banks 
to encumber a portion of the liquid assets as 
guarantee funds for the settlement of defaulted 
trades; similarly, regulation may require non-
centrally cleared positions of dealer banks to 
also be backed by liquid assets for prudential 
management of the ex-post risks they pose. Such 
liquidity regulations, in response to speculation, 
are another source of encumbrance. 
This raises an obvious question. Shouldn’t the 
regulator suspend a liquidity requirement imposed 
ex ante when stress materializes ex post? If so, 
more reserves will be available to alleviate market 
illiquidity. Diamond and Kashyap (2016) explain 
why the regulator may not want to release banks 
from holding reserves for fear that localized stress 
morphs into a full-blown panic. Furthermore, 
ratchet effects whereby supervisors scrutinize 
reductions in reserves closely no matter what the 
prior level held (see Nelson (2019)) would also 
contribute to reserves being hard to deploy. 
Consider now the third influence on ex-post 
liquidity – reserve hoarding by profit-maximizing 
banks. We assume banks see a convenience 
yield in directly holding reserves in times of 
stress. Given this benefit to holding liquidity, 
healthy banks can choose between two options: 
to either remain perceptibly safe and attract 
flight-to-safety deposits (with their associated 
convenience yield); or to lend in the interbank 
market and realize the associated rents but in the 
process become tainted and attract none of the 
flight-to-safety reserve flows. The interbank rate 
will have to move up to convince banks to lend 
and forego the convenience yield that comes 
from attracting flight-to-safety deposits. Clearly, 
It is possible that central bank 
balance sheet expansion under 
some circumstances does not 
reduce illiquidity premia, but may 
even enhance them. Instead of 
enhancing financial stability, it 
makes the financial system more 
fragile. Rather than expanding 
real activity, it dis-incentivizes it.
Exhibit 2 · Reserves of Depository Institutions and Uninsured Deposit Liabilities
Note
Reserves of Depository Institutions and Uninsured Deposit Liabilities
Notes: The data are from the Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis database (FRED).
Shaded areas indicate US recessions. 
Source: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (US) 
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000 Billion Dollars
2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
1,000
3,000
5,000
7,000
US-Chartered Depository Institutions; 
Uninsured Transaction and Nontransaction Deposits; 
Liability (Includes Savings and Loans Beginning 2012q1), 
Level/1000
Reserves of Depository Institutions: Total
s: The data are from the Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis database (FRED). Shaded areas indicate US recessions.  Source: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (US) 
5
Research Brief: “Liquidity, Liquidity Everywhere, not a Drop to Use: Why Flooding Banks with Central Bank Reserves May Not Expand Liquidity”  
Becker Friedman Institute at the University of Chicago · 1126 E. 59th Street, Chicago, IL 60637 · Main: 773.702.5599 · bfi.uchicago.edu 
===== PAGE 6 =====
the higher the perceived convenience yield, the 
higher the interbank rate will have to be. Indeed, 
the interbank market may remain shut altogether 
because it is cheaper for stressed banks to raise 
capital than to pay the exorbitant required rate. 
The bottom line though is liquidity hoarding 
by healthy banks can contribute to the ex-post 
shortage even if aggregate liquidity is plentiful.
In sum, the key problem is that central bank 
reserves are placed with commercial banks. 
Commingled with those balance sheets, they 
influence other activities (lending, deposit 
financing, hoarding) that have the potential 
for significantly enhancing the net demand for 
liquidity. If, instead, central bank reserves were 
placed directly with households, or with financial 
intermediaries that did not issue claims on liquidity, 
the effects we hypothesize would be mitigated (as 
argued, for instance, by Greenwood, Hanson and 
Stein, 2016), but not entirely eliminated. 
What, for instance, if the central bank issues 
reserves directly to the non-bank private financial 
sector? Here again, a desire to match the duration 
of liabilities with assets to reduce risk will result 
in non-banks financing with short-term liabilities. 
Many of the consequences we have documented 
and modeled for banks will follow. In April 2021, 
the Federal Reserve reinstated the supplementary 
leverage ratio (SLR) for commercial banks. This 
is a regulatory capital requirement that was 
suspended in April 2020 in the wake of the 
pandemic (see Covas, 2021). Given the increased 
cost to banks of funding reserves with long-term 
capital, they released reserves. Interestingly, 
money market funds, themselves funded with 
short term liabilities, took on the reserves and 
redeposited them at the central bank via overnight 
reverse-repo facilities. This suggests the natural 
form of reserve funding is short-term even in the 
non-bank financial sector.
Given current practice, our paper suggests that 
under certain circumstances, there is a threshold 
size of the central bank balance sheet beyond 
which further expansion will increase the severity 
of future liquidity problems. Consequently, the 
balance sheet size that is optimal from a purely 
monetary perspective may be excessive from 
a financial stability perspective. More generally, 
even though the central bank has no direct cost of 
creating additional fiat money (Friedman (1969)), 
our paper proposes a social cost stemming 
from the reactions of market participants with 
consequences for financial stability.    
Much of the related literature has focused on 
frictions such as market segmentation, capital 
regulation, and timing mismatches (from intraday 
payments and Treasury sales) to explain price 
spikes in usually liquid money markets. To alleviate 
these spikes, a number of commentators suggest 
that the central bank provide more liquidity 
in stressed times to a wider array of market 
participants (see the G30 Report on US Treasury 
Markets 2021), that it permanently expand the 
quantum of reserves (Copeland, Duffie, and 
Yang (2021)), or that it reduce or eliminate 
capital requirements against reserves (Liang 
and Parkinson (2020)). While these proposals 
will likely reduce stress ex post, we also need an 
ex-ante analysis of why the system is so fragile 
despite abundant reserves to understand the full 
consequences of the proposed policies.2 
 
Regulation of centralized clearing 
may require dealer banks to 
encumber a portion of the liquid 
assets as guarantee funds for 
the settlement of defaulted 
trades; similarly, regulation may 
require non-centrally cleared 
positions of dealer banks to also 
be backed by liquid assets for 
prudential management of the 
ex-post risks they pose. Such 
liquidity regulations, in response 
to speculation, are another source 
of encumbrance.  
2 Most closely related to our paper is Diamond, Jiang, and Ma (2021), who ask how the reserve build-up by the Federal Reserve could affect bank lending. Using 
structural estimation methods, they conclude the $2.7 trillion increase in Fed reserves from quantitative easing reduced bank lending by over $500 billion. Our 
focus instead is on the effects of reserves on ex-post liquidity, and how that would impact corporate lending. Even though our papers are complementary given 
their focus, the implications, for example on whether capital requirements should be relaxed ex ante for reserve holdings, are different.
6
Research Brief: “Liquidity, Liquidity Everywhere, not a Drop to Use: Why Flooding Banks with Central Bank Reserves May Not Expand Liquidity”  
Becker Friedman Institute at the University of Chicago · 1126 E. 59th Street, Chicago, IL 60637 · Main: 773.702.5599 · bfi.uchicago.edu 
===== PAGE 7 =====
For instance, reducing capital requirements on 
reserves could make them more available ex 
post, but it will increase the short-term financing 
of reserves, which contributes to the problem. 
Similarly, the central bank can certainly flood the 
market with reserves ex post. Such intervention is 
not without cost. Ex post, it crowds out lending by 
healthy banks, increasing the scale of the needed 
intervention. Ex ante, market participants are even 
more inclined to write future claims on liquidity and 
ever more reliant on the central bank backstop. 
Consequently, we should expect escalating and 
more frequent central bank interventions over 
time, with broader categories of assets accepted 
as collateral for the central bank intervention, and 
potential distortions creeping into asset prices 
as well as asset allocations. In our analysis, such 
growing liquidity dependency of the system on the 
central bank is a concerning possibility. 
Put differently, the shrinking of central bank 
balance sheets that is currently being discussed 
by major central banks will have to be managed 
carefully so as to avoid market disruption. That 
the central bank’s balance sheet is many times 
historical levels does not mean that the liquidity 
provided exceeds the private sector’s needs – the 
latter have grown along with the growth of the 
central bank balance sheet. Indeed, the private 
sector will have to be weaned off dependence 
on the central bank’s balance sheet. That is likely 
to be a delicate task requiring central bank skill, 
determination, and patience. 
We have likely only scratched the surface in 
modeling and sketching out implications of the 
phenomenon that the ex-ante supply of reserves 
affects the ex-post demand for them. There is 
clearly more work to be done in understanding 
and mitigating liquidity stress implied by this 
phenomenon. 
 
CLOSING TAKEAWAY
Given current practice, our paper 
suggests that under certain 
circumstances, there is a threshold 
size of the central bank balance 
sheet beyond which further 
expansion will increase the severity 
of future liquidity problems. 
Consequently, the balance sheet 
size that is optimal from a purely 
monetary perspective may be 
excessive from a financial stability 
perspective. 
References
Acharya, Viral V. and Raghuram G Rajan, “Liquidity, Liquidity Everywhere, Not a Drop to Use – Why Flooding Banks with Central 
Bank Reserves May Not Expand Liquidity”, Working Paper, NYU Stern School of Business.
Anderson, Alyssa, Wenxin Du, and Bernd Schlusche, 2021, “Arbitrage Capital of Global Banks”, working paper.
Aramonte, Sirio, Andreas Schrimpf, and Hyun Song Shin (2021), Non-Bank Financial Intermediaries and Financial Stability, working 
paper, Bank for International Settlements.
Caballero, Ricardo and Arvind Krishnamurthy (2003) “Excessive Dollar Debt: Financial Development and Underinsurance”, Journal 
of Finance, 58, 867-893.
Copeland, Adam, Darrell Duffie and Yilin (David) Yang (2021) “Reserves Were Not So Ample After All”, Working Paper, Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York.
Correa, Ricardo, Wenxin Du, and Gordon Liao (2021), “US Banks and Global Liquidity”, working paper, University of Chicago Booth School.
Covas, Francisco (2021), “Take-up at the Federal Reserve’s ON RRP facility: Much Larger and More Persistent than Planned, Getting 
Larger, and the Reasons Why”, Bank Policy Institute.
 
7
Research Brief: “Liquidity, Liquidity Everywhere, not a Drop to Use: Why Flooding Banks with Central Bank Reserves May Not Expand Liquidity”  
Becker Friedman Institute at the University of Chicago · 1126 E. 59th Street, Chicago, IL 60637 · Main: 773.702.5599 · bfi.uchicago.edu 
===== PAGE 8 =====
READ THE WORKING PAPER 
NO. 2022-19 · JANUARY 2022
Liquidity, Liquidity Everywhere, not a Drop 
to Use: Why Flooding Banks with Central 
Bank Reserves May Not Expand Liquidity 
bfi.uchicago.edu/working-paper/202219
ABOUT OUR SCHOLAR
Raghuram G. Rajan
Katherine Dusak Miller Distinguished Service 
Professor of Finance, Chicago Booth
chicagobooth.edu/faculty/directory/r/raghuram-
g-rajan
D’Avernas Adrien and Quentin Vandeweyer (2021) “Intraday Liquidity and Money Market Dislocations”, Working Paper, University  
of Chicago Booth School of Business.
Diamond, D. and A. Kashyap (2016), “Liquidity Requirements, liquidity choice, and financial stability”, Handbook of Macroeconomics, 
Volume 2, 2016, Pages 2263-2303.
Diamond, William, Zhengyang Jiang, and Yiming Ma (2021), “The Reserve Supply Channel of Unconventional Monetary Policy”, 
SSRN working paper.
Fabo, Brian, Martina Jancokova, Elisabeth Kempf, and Lubos Pastor, (2021), “Fifty Shades of QE: Comparing Findings of Central 
Bankers and Academics”, SSRN working paper. 
Friedman, Milton, 1969, The Optimum Quantity of Money, Macmillan. 
G30 Report on US Treasury Markets: U.S. Treasury Markets – Steps Toward Increased Resilience
Greenwood, Robin, Samuel G. Hanson and Jeremy C. Stein (2016) “The Federal Reserve’s Balance Sheet as a Financial-Stability 
Tool”, Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City’s 2016 Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole.
Kovner, Anna and Antoine Martin (2020) “Expanding the Toolkit: Facilities Established to Respond to the COVID-19 Pandemic”, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York Liberty Street Economics.
Liang, Nellie and Pat Parkinson (2020) “Enhancing liquidity of the US Treasury market under stress”, Working Paper #72, Hutchins 
Center on Fiscal & Monetary Policy at Brookings.
Lorenzoni, Guido, “Inefficient Credit Booms,” Review of Economic Studies, 75 (2008), 809–833.
Nelson, Bill (2019) “Fed’s Balance Sheet Can and Should Get Much Smaller”, Remarks at Brookings Symposium on Repo Market 
Disruption, Bank Policy Institute. 
Stein (2012) “Monetary Policy as Financial Stability Regulation”, Quarterly Journal of Economics, 127(1), 57-95.
Yang (2021) “What Quantity of Reserves is Sufficient?” Working Paper, Stanford GSB.
8
Research Brief: “Liquidity, Liquidity Everywhere, not a Drop to Use: Why Flooding Banks with Central Bank Reserves May Not Expand Liquidity”  
Becker Friedman Institute at the University of Chicago · 1126 E. 59th Street, Chicago, IL 60637 · Main: 773.702.5599 · bfi.uchicago.edu 