
===== PAGE 1 =====
 
 
  
The Optimal Supply of 
Central Bank Reserves Under 
Uncertainty  
Gara Afonso  | Gabriele La Spada  | Thomas M. Mertens  |  
John C. Williams  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N O .  1077  
N O V E M B E R  2 0 2 3 
 
R E V I S E D 
D E C E M B E R  2 0 25 
 
===== PAGE 2 =====
The Optimal Supply of Central Bank Reserves Under Uncertainty 
Gara Afonso, Gabriele La Spada, Thomas M. Mertens, and John C. Williams 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Reports, no. 1077 
November 2023; revised December 2025 
https://doi.org/10.59576/sr.1077 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract 
We provide an analytically tractable theoretical model for the optimal supply of reserves and the design of 
standing liquidity facilities under uncertainty about banks’ demand for reserves. Absent a lending facility, 
uncertainty creates a precautionary motive to supply additional reserves. Introducing a lending facility 
generates a tradeoff between rate control and market disintermediation. If the facility rate is set optimally, 
the presence of the facility reduces the optimal supply of reserves. If the central bank cannot set the 
lending rate optimally, the optimal supply of reserves can be higher or lower than absent a facility.  
 
JEL classification: E52, E58, E41, E42 
Keywords: monetary policy implementation, rate control, federal funds rate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________ 
 
Afonso, Spada, Williams: Federal Reserve Bank of New York (emails: gara.afonso@ny.frb.org, 
gabriele.laspada@ny.frb.org, john.c.williams@ny.frb.org). Mertens: Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco (email: thomas.mertens@sf.frb.org). The authors thank Lorenzo Burlon, Matthieu Bussière, 
Darrell Duffie, Antoine Martin, Ricardo Reis, Hyun Shin, David Skeie, Petra Tschudin, and participants 
at presentations at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
the SNB-FRB-BIS GRUV conference, the First Banca d’Italia Monetary Policy Conference, the BIS 
Research Conference, and the SNB Research Conference on Monetary Policy for helpful discussions. 
 
This paper presents preliminary findings and is being distributed to economists and other interested 
readers solely to stimulate discussion and elicit comments. The views expressed in this paper are those of 
the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the position of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and 
San Francisco, the Federal Open Market Committee, or the Federal Reserve System. Any errors or 
omissions are the responsibility of the author(s). 
To view the authors’ disclosure statements, visit 
https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/staff_reports/sr1077.html. 
===== PAGE 3 =====
1 Introduction
The ways in which central banks supply reserves and control interest rates in alignment
with their monetary policy goals have evolved over the past two decades. Prior to the
global financial crisis (GFC), many central banks opted for implementation frameworks
whereby the quantity of reserves in excess of regulatory requirements is small, reserve
supply intersects banks’ demand in the steeply-sloped region of the demand curve, and
controlovershort-terminterestratesisexercisedthroughregularopenmarketoperations.
InresponsetotheGFCandagainfollowingtheCOVID-19pandemic,manycentralbanks
expanded their balance sheets through quantitative easing programs funded in part by
large-scale increases of central bank reserves. These developments necessitated funda-
mentalchangesinhowcentralbanksapproachtheprovisionofreserveswhilemaintaining
control of short-term rates.
As a result of their experiences in managing large balance sheets, several central
banks—including the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, and the Bank of
England—have significantly modified their strategies for supplying reserves and con-
trolling interest rates. Although the approaches differ in important ways, a common
feature of these approaches is that they combine the provision of a quantity of interest-
bearing reserves with a standing lending facility designed to limit upward movements in
short-term rates.
This paper analyzes the optimal supply of reserves using an analytically tractable
modelofthesupplyanddemandofreservesthathasapplicabilitytoarangeofinstitutional
structures and policy objectives. The key building block of this analysis is a nonlinear
demand curve for central bank reserves that is subject to uncertainty, consistent with the
theoretical and empirical evidence (Poole, 1968; Afonso and Lagos, 2015; Bianchi and
Bigio, 2022; d’Avernas et al., 2023; Lagos and Navarro, 2023; Afonso et al., 2025; and
2
===== PAGE 4 =====
Copeland et al., 2025). The analytical model is simple and flexible, making it a useful
framework to examine the effects of the variety of circumstances that underlie central
banks’ decision-making regarding the supply of reserves and the design of liquidity
facilities.
The reserve demand curve represents the downward relationship between the price
of reserves—measured as the spread between the short-term interest rate in the market
for reserves and the interest rate paid on reserve balances held at the central bank—and
the aggregate quantity of reserves. This demand is the result of a tradeoff: banks receive
benefits from holding reserves but also incur costs. Since the net benefits decline with
the quantity of reserves, the curve is nonlinear and has a lower asymptote. If a lending
facilityispresent,thecurvehasalsoanupperasymptotebecausethefacilitysetsaceiling
on market rates.
The central bank controls two policy instruments: it sets the ex-ante aggregate level
of reserves available to the banking system and the rate at which banks can borrow from
the standing lending facility (for any given level of the interest rate on reserve balances).
In our model, these decisions are made in advance of the realization of uncertainty about
the demand for reserves. The analysis is static in nature and abstracts from learning,
transition dynamics, and decisions regarding the assets held by the central bank.
The central bank sets its two policy instruments to minimize a linear combination
of the expected losses associated with three different aspects of supplying reserves to
the banking system. First, the central bank aims to minimize deviations of the policy
rate (i.e., the interest rate in the market for reserves) from its target level. Second, the
central bank may have a target for the quantity of reserves that reflects goals that are
unrelated to the control of short-term rates, such as the functioning of financial markets
and financial stability. Third, usage of the standing lending facility may be associated
with non-pecuniary costs for the central bank, such as disintermediation of the interbank
3
===== PAGE 5 =====
market, which hinders the informativeness of prices and market efficiency.
Thisanalysisyieldsfournovelinsightsregardingtheoptimalex-antesupplyofreserves
and the design of standing liquidity facilities. First, we fully characterize the optimal
supply of central bank reserves and the optimal lending facility spread (with respect to
theinterestrateonreservebalances),alongwiththeassociatedmarketequilibrium,inthe
presence of uncertainty about the demand for reserves. Second, we show that, absent a
lending facility, the optimal ex-ante supply of reserves under uncertainty is greater than
it would be absent uncertainty, while the average interbank market spread may be higher
or lower than in the deterministic setting. Third, in the presence of a lending facility, the
optimal facility spread increases with the penalty on facility usage in the central bank’s
objective function; in the limiting case of no penalty, the optimal lending facility spread
equals the target market spread. Fourth, given an optimal choice of the lending facility
spread,theoptimalex-antesupplyofreservesissmallerthanitwouldbeabsentalending
facility; if, on the other hand, the lending facility rate is not set optimally, the optimal
ex-ante level of reserves may be lower or higher than it would be without the facility.
Taken together, these results show that the optimal choices for the supply of reserves and
the design of liquidity facilities depend critically on institutional factors, such as market
frictions or constraints related to liquidity facilities, as well as central bank preferences
over the various goals related to the supply of reserves.
This paper makes two main contributions to the literature and policy debate. First,
by deriving the optimal supply of central bank reserves under uncertainty, it adds to
the academic literature on the optimal supply of money going back to Friedman (1969).
Relevant related research includes Afonso et al. (2021), Yang (2022), d’Avernas et al.
(2023), Lagos and Navarro (2023), Afonso et al. (2025), and Copeland et al. (2025), who
empirically study how reserve scarcity led to severe dislocations of U.S. money market
rates in September 2019. Other recent research related to this paper includes Martin
4
===== PAGE 6 =====
et al. (2019),Bigio and Sannikov (2021), and Bianchi and Bigio (2022), who study the
problem of optimal monetary policy implementation from the perspective of monetary
policy transmission to the real economy. Second, this paper contributes to recent policy
debates about the optimal framework for monetary policy implementation by providing
a general, analytically tractable, theoretical model of monetary policy implementation
thatincludesthefundamentaltoolsused bycentralbankstocontrolmoney-marketrates,
encompassingthedifferentsystemsadoptedacrossjurisdictions. Thismodelcantherefore
beusedtoformallyanalyzethetrade-offsthataffectthedesignofcentralbanks’operational
frameworks.
Thepaperisorganizedasfollows. Section2describestheinstitutionalbackground,the
theoreticalmodelofthereservedemandcurve,howastandinglendingfacilityaffectsthe
curve, and the central bank optimization problem. Section 3 derives the optimal ex-ante
supply of reserves without a lending facility. Section 4 derives the optimal design of the
lending facility and the implications for the optimal ex-ante supply of reserves. Section 5
discusses rate control in different implementation frameworks and the trade-offs central
banks face in the design of their frameworks. Section 6 concludes.
2 Monetary Policy Implementation and Reserves Demand
Central banks rely on two main sets of tools to implement monetary policy: instruments
thatguidethepolicyratebyadjustingthequantityofreservesinthebankingsystemand
instrumentsthatsteerthepolicyratebychangingtheratescontrolledbythecentralbank.
Thechoiceoftoolkitdependsonthesensitivityofthepolicyratetochangesinthesupply
and demand for reserves, which itself varies with the quantity of reserves in the system.
5
===== PAGE 7 =====
2.1 Institutional Background
The Federal Reserve has implemented monetary policy with different frameworks over
time. Before the GFC of 2007–09, reserves were scarce, fluctuating within the steeply
sloped region of the reserve demand curve. In this regime, control of the policy rate—
the federal funds rate—was maintained through daily changes in the supply of reserves.
Every day, the Federal Reserve would forecast banks’ demand for reserves and those
factorsthataffectthesupplyoutsideitscontrol; giventheseforecasts, itwouldtheninject
or drain reserves through daily repurchase agreement (repo) operations with primary
dealers to ensure that the policy rate remained close to its target. Currently, several
jurisdictions—including the central banks of Korea, Turkey, and Sweden—continue to
carry out monetary policy in this way.
WiththeonsetoftheGFC,theFederalReserveundertookseveralroundsofquantitative
easing,purchasinglonger-termfinancialassetstoimproveconditionsinfinancialmarkets
and stimulate the economy (Bernanke, 2020). As a result of these purchases, reserves
in the banking system increased substantially, moving into the lower asymptote of the
reserve demand curve, and the policy rate became insensitive to small adjustments in
the supply.1 For this reason, the Federal Reserve transitioned to implementing monetary
policy primarily through administered rates. In this new regime, rather than adding or
subtracting reserves daily, the Federal Reserve adjusts the interest rates of its deposit and
lendingfacilitiestomaintainthepolicyratewithinthetargetrange. TheEuropeanCentral
Bank (ECB), Bank of England, and Bank of Canada had similar experiences.
Since then, several central banks have reviewed and modified their frameworks. In
January2019,theFederalReservecompleteditsreviewandannouncedthatitwillcontinue
to implement monetary policy in a regime with an ample supply of reserves where rate
1Reservesincreasedfrom0.6%ofbankassetsduring2000:Q1–2008:Q2to12.5%during2008:Q3–2020:Q1.
As a result of the quantitative easing implemented by the Federal Reserve in response to the COVID-19
pandemic, this ratio increased further to 15.1% during 2020:Q2–2025:Q2.
6
===== PAGE 8 =====
control is exercised primarily through the setting of its administered rates. To strengthen
rate control, the Federal Reserve established a standing repo facility (SRF) in 2021 to set a
ceiling on short-term rates and thus limit occasional upward pressure.2
In 2024, the ECB concluded the review of its framework and also decided to continue
to implement monetary policy through administered rates. Among other changes, the
ECBnarrowedthespreadbetweentherateatthelendingfacilityforthemainrefinancing
operationsandtherateatthedepositfacility(EuropeanCentralBankGoverningCouncil
(2024)). Similarly, the 2022–24 Bank of England’s review also resulted in a decision to
control the policy rate through administered rates and reliance on a standing lending
facility, the short-term repo facility, to provide unlimited amounts of reserves to the
bankingsystem(BankofEngland(2022)). ThenoveltyoftheBankofEnglandapproachis
thatitsetsthespreadbetweentheupperandlowerboundsofthepolicyratetozero,aiming
tomakethepolicyrateconstantandindependentofaggregatereservesandtoincentivize
banks to borrow from the central bank as much as they need (Bank of England (2024)).
Other central banks have also reviewed and modified their implementation frameworks
recently, including the Bank of Canada (Bank of Canada (2025)) and the Reserve Bank of
Australia (Kent (2025)).
2.2 A Model of Reserve Demand
The reserve demand curve represents the relationship between the interest rate at which
banks are willing to trade reserve balances with each other and the aggregate reserves in
the banking system. Economic theory predicts that this curve is nonlinear (Poole (1968)):
it decreases with reserves and levels out with higher reserve balances. The intuition
is simple: banks hold reserves to meet their liquidity needs (e.g., payments, regulatory
2The Federal Reserve also established a repo facility for foreign and international monetary authorities
(FIMA repo facility) to address pressures in global dollar funding markets.
7
===== PAGE 9 =====
requirements). As the quantity of reserves increases, the net benefit of an additional unit
of reserves declines, and the relation between price and quantity becomes flatter. For
low levels of reserves, the slope of the curve is steep, and a small change in the quantity
of reserves results in a significant change in the market rate; this region of the demand
curve is called the “scarce reserves” region. At higher levels of reserves, the slope is still
negativebutsmallerinmagnitude;thisisoftenreferredtoasthe“amplereserves”region.
At sufficiently high levels of reserves, the curve is flat, i.e., bank demand is satiated; this
is called the “abundant reserves” region.3
In practice, it is convenient to write the demand curve in terms of the spread between
therateatwhichbankstradereservesandtherateatwhichthecentralbankremunerates
reserve balances. In this way, the demand curve is unaffected by changes in banks’
opportunitycostoflendingreservesdrivenbythestanceofmonetarypolicy. 4 Westartby
analyzingasimplifiedversionofthemodelinwhichthereareonlytworegionsofdemand
for reserves: ample and abundant reserves; in Section 3.4, we present an extension of the
model with a third region with scarce reserves.
Wemodelthespreadbetweentheinterbankmarketrateandtheinterestrateonreserve
balances, 𝑆, as a piecewise-linear function of aggregate reserves,𝑋:
𝑆 =
 

¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) if 𝑋 < ¯𝑋 + 𝜖,
¯𝑆 + 𝜈 else,
(1)
where ¯𝑋 + 𝜖 denotes the level of reserves above which the demand for reserves becomes
flat (abundant reserves),𝛼 > 0 is the steepness of the demand curve if𝑋 < ¯𝑋 + 𝜖 (ample
reserves), and ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 is the spread if reserves are abundant (floor of the demand curve).
3SeeEnnisandKeister(2008),AfonsoandLagos(2015),ArmenterandLester(2017),Afonsoetal.(2019),
Kim et al. (2020), Bigio and Sannikov (2021), Bianchi and Bigio (2022), and Lagos and Navarro (2023).
4This representation of the demand curve has been broadly adopted by recent theoretical and empirical
papers. SeeBigioandSannikov(2021);BianchiandBigio(2022);Lopez-SalidoandVissing-Jorgensen(2022);
Lagos and Navarro (2023); Acharya et al. (2023); Afonso et al. (2025).
8
===== PAGE 10 =====
Consistentwiththetheory,theslopeofthedemandcurveintheabundantreservesregion
is zero.5 We assume that ¯𝑋, 𝛼, and ¯𝑆 are known to the central bank, whereas𝜖 and 𝜈
are uncertain. In Section 3.4, we present an extension of the model that also includes
uncertainty about the slope of the demand curve.
Absent uncertainty, the demand curve is𝑆 = max( ¯𝑆, ¯𝑆 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋)), which is shown
by the solid black lines in Figure 1. In the flat region of the reserve demand curve, where
reservesareabundant,theinterbankmarketrateisanchoredtotheinterestrateonreserve
balances. In the absence of frictions, the spread between these rates,¯𝑆, is zero. In the
presence of frictions such as balance-sheet costs or market segmentation, however, the
spread can be negative (Afonso et al., 2019; Kim et al., 2020).
Figure 1 also shows how the two elements of uncertainty in our model affect the
demand for reserves. Each type of uncertainty is represented by a mean-zero shock
with finite variance that is uncorrelated with the other shock. The shock𝜖 represents
uncertainty about the location of the kink in the demand curve; it is assumed to have
a continuous probability density function𝑔(·), a cumulative distribution function𝐺(·),
and variance 𝜎2
𝜖. This horizontal shock can be interpreted as an unobserved horizontal
shift to the demand curve due to changes in banks’ demand for liquidity; it can also be
interpreted as a shock to the supply of reserves caused by factors outside the control of
the central bank.6 The shock 𝜈, with variance𝜎2
𝜈, reflects uncertainty about the level of
the floor of the demand curve and affects the spread equally along the curve. This shock
can be interpreted as an unobserved vertical shift to the demand curve due to changes in
the frictions that determine¯𝑆.
Both of our key modeling assumptions—a nonlinear reserve demand curve with a
5Our analysis and key results carry over if the slope in the abundant reserves region is negative, as long
as it is smaller in magnitude than the average slope in the ample reserves region.
6Inmanyjurisdictions,currencyincirculation(banknotesandcoins)andthegovernmentaccountatthe
centralbank(e.g.,theTreasuryGeneralAccountintheU.S.)constituteimportantfactorsoutsidethecontrol
of the central bank that affect the level of reserves in the banking system.
9
===== PAGE 11 =====
lower flat region and the presence of horizontal and vertical shifts—are consistent with
the empirical evidence about banks’ demand for reserves in the United States (Afonso et
al. (2025)); see Appendix C for more details.
Figure 1:A Graphical Representation of Uncertainty about the Demand for Reserves.
These figures show the effects of the two types of uncertainty on the demand for reserves
in equation (1). Panel (a) shows the effect of uncertainty about the horizontal location of
the kink ¯𝑋 (𝜖 shock); panel (b) shows the effect of uncertainty about vertical location (the
floor) of the demand curve¯𝑆 (𝜈 shock).
(a)Uncertaintyaboutlocationofthekink( 𝜖 shock)
 (b)Uncertaintyaboutthelevelofthefloor( 𝜈shock)
2.3 Standing Lending Facilities
Central bank standing lending facilities enhance rate control by establishing a ceiling on
theratesatwhichbanksarewillingtoborrowfromeachother: absentfrictions,ifalending
facilityisavailable,banksshouldnotborrowinthemarketatratesabovethefacilityrate. 7
Central banks design their lending facilities weighting the benefits and costs of public
liquidity provision: they aim to balance the advantages for rate control with concerns
about market disintermediation, which could hinder monitoring and price discovery.8
7Frictionssuchasstigmaandbalance-sheetcostsmaypushtheupperboundhigherthanthefacilityrate.
8SeeFederalReserve(2021)forconsiderationsontheestablishmentofstandingrepofacilitiesintheU.S.
10
===== PAGE 12 =====
Inourmodel,weassumetheimplementationframeworkincludesafixed-ratelending
facility. We denote the spread between the lending facility rate and the interest rate on
reserve balances by ¯𝑆𝐿. We begin our analysis by assuming that the facility spread is
exogenous, that is, the central bank chooses the ex-ante reserve supply taking the facility
spreadasgiven; thiscouldbethecaseiflegalorotherinstitutionalconstraintsrestrictthe
setting of the lending rate. We then relax this assumption and allow the central bank to
jointly choose the ex-ante supply of reserves and the lending rate spread.
We abstract from stigma and other frictions and assume that the facility spread,¯𝑆𝐿,
sets a ceiling on the market spread, as shown in Figure 2. We also assume that banks can
borrow from the facility after uncertainty is realized. When banks’ demand for reserves
intersects the total ex-ante supply (𝑋 + 𝜖) at a spread above¯𝑆𝐿, banks borrow from the
facilitytheamountofreserves 𝐿thatmakesthetotalsupply(ex-antesupplyplusborrowed
reserves) equal to the level of reserves corresponding to¯𝑆𝐿 on the demand curve. This
quantity is a random variable, described by:
𝐿 =
 

− 1
𝛼
  ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 − 𝜈 − (𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) if ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) > ¯𝑆𝐿,
0 else,
where ¯𝜖𝐿 = 𝑋 − ¯𝑋 +
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
𝛼 is the cutoff value for the demand shock at which the facility
is first utilized; then, the probability of using the lending facility is1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿), and the
demand for reserves is given by
𝑆 =
 

¯𝑆𝐿 if 𝑋 < ¯𝑋 + 𝜖 − 1
𝛼
  ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 − 𝜈 ,
¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) if ¯𝑋 + 𝜖 − 1
𝛼
  ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 − 𝜈 < 𝑋 < ¯𝑋 + 𝜖,
¯𝑆 + 𝜈 else.
(2)
11
===== PAGE 13 =====
Figure 2:Reserve Demand Curve with a Standing Lending Facility.This figure shows
the effect of a fix-rate lending facility on the demand for reserves.
2.4 The Central Bank Optimization Problem
The central bank has two main tools to steer the policy rate towards its target. First, it can
alter the ex-ante supply of reserves𝑋, through outright asset purchases (or sales) or repo
operations. Second, if alendingfacilityhasbeen established, the centralbankcanchange
the spread between the facility rate and the interest rate on reserve balances¯𝑆𝐿, to adjust
the ceiling on market rates.
Given the demand curve in equation (2), the central bank uses these two implementa-
tion tools to minimize the following quadratic objective function
ℒ = min
𝑋 , ¯𝑆𝐿

E
 1
2

(𝑆 − ˆ𝑆)2 + 𝜆(𝑋 − ˆ𝑋)2

+ 𝜇𝐿

= min
𝑋 , ¯𝑆𝐿
 1
2

(E𝑆 − ˆ𝑆)2 +Var[𝑆] + 𝜆(𝑋 − ˆ𝑋)2

+ 𝜇𝐿

,
(3)
where ˆ𝑆 and ˆ𝑋 are the target spread and the target level of reserves that the central bank
aims to achieve;𝐿 is the amount that banks borrow from the lending facility;𝜆 ≥ 0 is the
relative weight given to deviations from the reserves targetˆ𝑋; and 𝜇 ≥ 0 is the penalty
related to facility usage.
12
===== PAGE 14 =====
Notethatinthecentralbanklossfunction(3),wetreattheex-antesupplyofreserves, 𝑋,
differentlyfromthereservesborrowedfromthefacility, 𝐿. Thisspecificationisconsistent
with the theoretical arguments in Section 5, which suggest that the ex-ante supply of
reserves and reserves borrowed from a lending facility have different costs and benefits
for the central bank. Also note that the central bank optimization problem is static; that
is, we assume that the degree of uncertainty is fixed and there is no ability to learn.
The target spread,ˆ𝑆, reflects efficiency and welfare considerations that are related to
the levelof money-market spreadsin the economy. Anatural benchmark is theFriedman
rule: absent frictions, to maximize economic efficiency, it would be optimal not to set a
spreadbetweentherateinthemarketforreservesandtheinterestrateonreservebalances
( ˆ𝑆 = ¯𝑆 = 0). However, in the presence of frictions, such as bank balance-sheet costs or
householdcreditconstraints,itcanbeoptimalforthecentralbanktotargetaspreadabove
the lower asymptote of the reserve demand curve,ˆ𝑆 > ¯𝑆 (Bigio and Sannikov, 2021).
Thecentralbankmayalsohaveaseparatetargetforthelevelofreserves, ˆ𝑋. Thistarget
reflects considerations about the quantity of reserves in the system that are not directly
related to the level of money-market spreads in the economy; typical examples are the
political economy concerns about a large central bank balance-sheet (Bindseil, 2016) and
the concerns about the possible disintermediation of the banking system and its impact
on market discipline and price discovery (Borio, 2023). In Section 5.2, we discuss these
considerationsinmoredetail. Iftheseconcernsaresufficientlylarge,thecentralbankmay
target a level of reserves below the region of abundant reserves (ˆ𝑋 < ¯𝑋).
3 Optimal Policy Without a Lending Facility
In this section, we analytically derive the optimal supply of reserves by the central bank
given the demand curve in equation (1), i.e., in the absence of a lending facility. In this
13
===== PAGE 15 =====
setting, the central bank has only one instrument: the ex-ante supply of reserves𝑋.
3.1 Optimal Supply of Reserves Absent Uncertainty
We first analyze the optimal supply of reserves in the deterministic version of the model
that excludes the two shocks𝜖 and 𝜈 in equation (1). The proofs for the results in this
section are in Appendix A.1.
We begin by assuming that both central bank targets are in the ample region (ˆ𝑋 > ¯𝑋
and ˆ𝑆 > ¯𝑆). Taking the first-order condition for problem (3) and substituting the demand
for reserves in the ample reserves region into the first-order condition yields the optimal
level of reserves absent uncertainty,𝑋∗:
𝑋∗ = ¯𝑋 − 1
𝛼2 + 𝜆

𝛼( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) + 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋)

< ¯𝑋.
The optimal level of reserves absent uncertainty increases less than one-for-one with the
targetlevelofreserves ˆ𝑋 anddecreaseswiththetargetspread ˆ𝑆.9 Theequilibriumspread
implied by the optimal level of reserves absent uncertainty,𝑆∗, is given by:
𝑆∗ = 𝛼2
𝛼2 + 𝜆
ˆ𝑆 + 𝜆
𝛼2 + 𝜆 𝑆( ˆ𝑋),
where 𝑆( ˆ𝑋)is the point on the demand curve atˆ𝑋.
The spread under the optimal supply of reserves absent uncertainty equals the target
spreadif 𝜆 = 0andincreaseslessthanone-for-onewiththetargetspreadif 𝜆 > 0. Without
uncertainty, the optimal spread lies between the target spread and the spread implied by
the target level of reserves.
We now consider the other cases for the central bank targets. If the target for the
9The associated second-order condition for a minimum is𝛼2 + 𝜆 > 0, which holds by assumption.
14
===== PAGE 16 =====
ex-ante supply of reserves is in the ample region (ˆ𝑋 < ¯𝑋), and the target spread is equal
tothelowerasymptoteofthereservedemandcurve( ˆ𝑆 = ¯𝑆;e.g.,theFriedmanruleabsent
frictions), the optimal supply of reserves and the optimal spread are the same as above.
If the target level of reserves is in the abundant region (ˆ𝑋 > ¯𝑋), and the target spread is
in the ample region (ˆ𝑆 > ¯𝑆), the optimal supply of reserves is the same as above if and
only if the penalty for deviating from the target for reserves,𝜆, is sufficiently small; if𝜆
is sufficiently large, the optimal supply of reserves is equal to the target levelˆ𝑋, and the
optimal spread is¯𝑆.10 Obviously, if both targets are in the abundant region (ˆ𝑋 > ¯𝑋 and
ˆ𝑆 = ¯𝑆), the central bank hits these targets exactly (𝑋∗ = ˆ𝑋 and 𝑆∗ = ˆ𝑆).
In the following analyses, we focus on the more interesting cases whereˆ𝑋 < ¯𝑋,
whichcanbeinterpretedasreflectingtheconcernsaboutanexcessivelylargecentralbank
balance sheet described in Section 2.4.
3.2 Expected Spread and Its Variance Under Uncertainty
We start by deriving the expected spread and its variance under uncertainty.11 The
derivations of all the results in this section are in Appendix A.2.
Foragivenlevelofreservesintheampleregion, 𝑋,thecutoffvalueoftheshock 𝜖such
that reserves become abundant, denoted by¯𝜖(𝑋), is given by:
¯𝜖(𝑋) = 𝑋 − ¯𝑋.
For a given𝑋, the probability of being in the abundant reserves region is thenProb

𝜖 <
¯𝜖(𝑋)

= 𝐺

¯𝜖(𝑋)

. Tosimplifynotation,fortheremainderofthepaper,weuse ¯𝜖toindicate
10The threshold is˜𝜆 = 𝛼
ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆
ˆ𝑋 − ¯𝑋

2 + 𝛼
ˆ𝑋 − ¯𝑋
ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆
 −1
.
11The proofs underlying the results reported here build on methods developed for piecewise linear
stochastic models developed in Mertens and Williams (2021) and Bok et al. (2025).
15
===== PAGE 17 =====
¯𝜖(𝑋).
The mean spread under uncertainty is
E[𝑆] = ¯𝑆 + 𝛼

𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖

≥ max
 ¯𝑆 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋), ¯𝑆

, (4)
where 𝒢(𝑥) =
∫ 𝑥
−∞ 𝐺(𝑢)d𝑢 denotes the super-cumulative distribution function of𝜖, and
the term on the right-hand side of the inequality is the spread in the deterministic case.
The mean spread is greater than the deterministic one for all levels of reserves because
there is an inherent asymmetry with regards to horizontal uncertainty:𝜖 has no effect
on the spread at high levels of reserves because its distribution is truncated along the
horizontalportionofthereservedemandcurve,butitdoesaffectthespreadinthesloped
region of the curve. This asymmetry smooths the convex relationship between the mean
spread and the level of reserves around the kink implied by the underlying piecewise-
linear model and, as a result, the mean spread is higher for every reserve level. Figure 3
illustrates this result. In contrast, uncertainty about the vertical location of the demand
curve (𝜈) has no effect on the mean spread, at any level of reserves. It is straightforward
to show that the mean spread decreases with the ex-ante supply of reserves. In contrast
to the deterministic case, however, the rate of decrease declines as reserves increase.
The variance of the spread is given by:
Var[𝑆] = 𝜎2
𝜈 − 𝛼2

𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖
 2
+ 𝛼2

¯𝜖2 + 𝜎2
𝜖 − 2G( ¯𝜖)

∈ [ 𝜎2
𝜈, 𝜎2
𝜈 + 𝛼2𝜎2
𝜖], (5)
where G(𝑥) =
∫ 𝑥
−∞ 𝒢(𝑢)d𝑢 denotes the super-super cumulative distribution function of𝜖.
Theeffectsofuncertaintyaboutthehorizontallocationofthecurveonthevarianceofthe
spreaddependonthesupplyofreserves,asshownbythedependenceonthecutoff ¯𝜖. The
effect of uncertainty about the vertical location, in contrast, is constant because vertical
shifts move the spread by the same amount at every level of reserves. In the case without
16
===== PAGE 18 =====
horizontal shocks, the variance arises purely from vertical shocks, and Var[𝑆] = 𝜎2
𝜈.
Importantly, the variance of the spread decreases with the ex-ante supply of reserves.
This result again arises from the floor of the demand curve: as the central bank supplies
more reserves, the spread is more likely to be in the flat part of the demand curve, where
it is insensitive to horizontal shocks. In particular, as reserves go to infinity, the variance
of the spread converges to the variance of vertical shifts𝜎2
𝜈. In contrast, as reserves go to
negative infinity, the variance converges to𝜎2
𝜈 + 𝛼2𝜎2
𝜖, which is the variance of the spread
in the absence of a floor in the reserve demand curve. In practice, this limit corresponds
to the case of a central bank operating far from the floor and deep into the sloped region
of the reserve demand curve—such as in the monetary policy frameworks implemented
by the central banks of most advanced economies before the GFC.
Theseresultsshowthatthecentralbankcaninfluencethevariabilityoftheinterestrate
spread, even without a lending facility, through its provision of reserves. As we discuss
in the next section, these features of the mean and variance of the spread have important
implications for the optimal supply of reserves.
3.3 Optimal Supply of Reserves under Uncertainty
We now turn to the derivation of the optimal supply of reserves under uncertainty, in
the absence of a lending facility. After substituting the reserve demand curve (1) into the
optimization problem, the central bank’s objective function is given by:
min
𝑋
1
2
( 
( ¯𝑆 − ˆ𝑆)2 + 𝜎2
𝜈

𝐺( ¯𝜖) + E

¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆
 2 𝜖 > ¯𝜖

+ 𝜆(𝑋 − ˆ𝑋)2
)
.
Note that, as we explain in greater detail below, certainty equivalence doesnot hold due
to the truncation of the effect of horizontal shocks,𝜖, on the spread𝑆
Unlike the case of no uncertainty, the first-order condition is an implicit function
17
===== PAGE 19 =====
of the optimal reserves supply 𝑋∗∗ that may have multiple solutions, some of which
represent local minima and others local maxima depending on the sign of the second-
order condition. That said, since the loss function is continuous and monotonically
increases as reserves go to plus or minus infinity, there exists a global minimum. In our
analysis, we rely on the second-order condition holding at the global minimum, while
recognizing that there may be other local minima.
The key results regarding the effects of uncertainty on the optimal supply of reserves
are summarized in the following proposition.
Proposition 1 (Uncertainty Increases Optimal Supply of Reserves)
With joint uncertainty about𝜖 and 𝜈, the optimal level of reserves,𝑋∗∗, is characterized as follows
𝑋∗∗ = 𝑋∗ + 𝛼2
𝛼2 + 𝜆𝒢( ¯𝜖) + 𝛼
𝛼2 + 𝜆 ( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆)𝐺( ¯𝜖) ≥ 𝑋∗, (6)
whichincreaseswith ˆ𝑋 anddecreaseswith ˆ𝑆. Theassociatedmeanspreadunderuncertainty, E𝑆∗∗,
is given by:
E𝑆∗∗ = 𝑆∗ + 𝛼(𝒢( ¯𝜖) + 𝑋∗ − 𝑋∗∗) ≶ 𝑆∗.
Proof: See Appendix A.3 for details on the derivations. □
Uncertainty about horizontal shifts in the reserve demand curve creates a precaution-
ary motive to supply additional reserves. Uncertainty about horizontal shifts increases
the optimal supply of reserves because the kink in the demand curve truncates the effect
of reserves on the spread along the horizontal part of the curve. As a result, horizontal
shifts have an asymmetric effect on the spread: on average, shifts to the right (i.e., higher
demand) increase the spread more than shifts to the left (i.e., lower demand) decrease it.
Alargersupplyofreserveshastwoeffects: itreducesthedeviationfromthetargetspread
caused by the increase of the mean spread due to uncertainty (see equation (4)), and it
18
===== PAGE 20 =====
reduces the overall variability of the spread (see equation (5)).
Uncertaintyabouthorizontalshiftsmayincreaseordecreasetheoptimalmeanspread
due to two opposing effects: the direct effect of higher uncertainty, which increases the
mean spread for any given value of reserves, and the indirect effect of a higher optimal
level of reserves, which decreases the spread at the optimum. This result is important
because it implies that it is not possible to judge the optimality of a central bank’s reserve
supply in response to changing market conditions based on the level of the spread.
Figure 3 illustrates the optimal choice of reserves and the corresponding mean policy
rate spread under different uncertainty configurations. The black square denotes the
optimalchoicesabsentuncertainty. Theredsquaresshowtheoptimalchoiceswhenthere
is uncertainty about the kink (𝜖 shocks).
Finally, note that uncertainty about the floor of the demand curve (𝜈 shocks) does not
affect the mean spread or the optimal reserve supply. The reason is that vertical shocks
simply add a constant term to the variance of the spread without affecting its mean (see
equations (4) and (5)) and do not change how the supply of reserves affects the spread.
A direct implication of equation (6) is that an equally-sized joint increase in¯𝑋 and ˆ𝑋
yieldsaone-for-oneincreaseintheoptimalsupplyofreserves. Similarly,anequally-sized
joint increase in ¯𝑆 and ˆ𝑆 has no effect on the optimal supply of reserves. The reason
is that, for rate control, only the difference between the target spread and the spread’s
lower asymptote matters.12 As in the deterministic case, the optimal level of reserves is
increasing in the target level of reserves (if𝜆 > 0) and decreasing in the target spread.
Although we assume that the central bank targets a level of reserves in the ample
reserves region (ˆ𝑋 < ¯𝑋), under certain conditions it can be optimal to set the level of
reservesintheabundantregion. Absentuncertaintyabouthorizontalshiftsinthereserve
demand curve, if the central bank targets an ample reserve level, it is never optimal
12From equation (6), it is straightforward to show that𝑑𝑋 ∗∗
𝑑 ˆ𝑆
= − 𝑑𝑋 ∗∗
𝑑 ¯𝑆
; see Appendix A.3.
19
===== PAGE 21 =====
Figure 3: Expected Interest Rate Spread and Optimal Reserves.This figure shows the
expected spread between the market-implied policy rate and the interest rate on reserve
balances, both absent uncertainty and in the presence of different types of uncertainty
about the reserve demand curve. The dashed black line represents the deterministic case
withoutuncertaintyaboutthelocationofthekinkbetweenampleandabundantreserves
(𝜖shocks). Theredlinerepresentsthecasewithuncertaintyaboutthelocationofthekink.
The squares represent the expected spreads at the optimal reserve levels in the different
specifications: blackforthedeterministiccaseandredforthecasewithuncertaintyabout
the location of the kink. In these figures, the zero-mean independent shocks𝜖 and 𝜈 are
assumed to be normally distributed. Note that the expected spread and optimal reserves
when there is only uncertainty about the floor of the demand curve (𝜈 shocks) are the
same as in the deterministic case.
to supply abundant reserves. However, in the presence of this type of uncertainty, it
is optimal to supply an abundant amount of reserves if the degree of uncertainty is
sufficiently large; in particular if and only if the following condition is met:
−𝛼

1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)

( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) + (𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂)𝒢( ¯𝜖) − 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋) > 0.
See Appendix A.3 for a derivation. Importantly, whether providing abundant reserves is
optimal depends on the weight that the central bank puts on deviations from the target
level of reserves, 𝜆. A higher value of 𝜆 raises the hurdle to meet the condition for
abundant reserves to be optimal.
20
===== PAGE 22 =====
3.4 Extensions
The basic model can be extended in a number of directions without loss of analytical
tractability. We briefly consider two such extensions here and leave the details to the
appendix. Thefirstincorporatesuncertaintyabouttheslopeofthereservedemandcurve.
The second adds a steeper part of the demand curve for low, or scarce, levels of reserves.
Uncertainty about the slope of the demand curve provides an additional reason to
increase the supply of central bank reserves. It is optimal to guard against shocks to
the slope by supplying an additional buffer of reserves, analogous to the literature on
conservatism in the presence of multiplicative uncertainty started by Brainard (1967).
Appendix A.4.1 shows this extension.
The addition of a region with a steeper slope also reinforces the precautionary motive
to supply more reserves because shocks that push the level of reserves into the steeply-
slopedpartofthecurvegeneratehigherratevariability. Asaresult,theoptimalsupplyof
reserves is larger than in the otherwise equivalent two-region model under uncertainty.
Moreover,theconditionunderwhichthecentralbankfindsitoptimaltosupplyabundant
reserves is relaxed. Appendix A.4.2 shows this extension.
4 Optimal Policy With a Lending Facility
In this section, we show how the presence of fixed-rate lending facilities can alleviate
the effect of uncertainty on the optimal supply of reserves by reducing the central bank’s
precautionary motive to supply more reserves. A lending facility prevents the interest
rate spread from rising beyond a certain level, introducing a ceiling in the distribution of
realized spreads. We derive both the conditions under which the optimal reserve supply
is higher or lower than in implementation frameworks without a lending facility and the
21
===== PAGE 23 =====
optimalspreadbetweenthelendingfacilityrateandtheinterestrateonreserves. 13 Aswe
explain below, the tradeoff between rate control and market disintermediation caused by
facility usage makes the central bank problem non-trivial.
4.1 Expected Spread and Variance of the Spread
In the presence of a lending facility, the expected spread is given by:
E[𝑆] = ¯𝑆𝐿 − 𝛼 [𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)] ∈ [ ¯𝑆, ¯𝑆𝐿], (7)
where ¯𝜖𝐿 = ¯𝜖 +
¯𝑆𝐿− ¯𝑆
𝛼 . The derivation of equation (7) is given in Appendix B.1. It is
straightforwardtoshowthattheexpectedspreadincreaseswiththelendingfacilityspread
( ¯𝑆𝐿)anddecreaseswiththeex-antesupplyofreserves. Itconvergestothelendingfacility
spread from below as reserves go to minus infinity and to the lower asymptote of the
reserve demand curve (¯𝑆) from above as reserves go to infinity. Moreover, there exists
only one critical level of the ex-ante supply of reserves at which the expected spread is
equaltothedeterministicspread,withtheexpectedspreadbeingbelowthedeterministic
one for lower reserve levels and above it for higher reserve levels. If the distribution
of horizontal uncertainty 𝑔(𝜖) is symmetric around zero, the intersection between the
expected and deterministic spreads occurs at the midpoint between the two kinks in the
reserve demand curve (¯𝑋 −
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
2𝛼 ). The proofs of these results are in Appendix B.1.
The variance of the spread in the presence of a lending facility is given by:
Var[𝑆] = 𝜎2
𝜈 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 2 − 2𝛼   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝛼2 {[𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖𝐿] − [𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖]}2
+ 2𝛼2 [G( ¯𝜖𝐿) − G( ¯𝜖)] . (8)
13Forthepurposeofouranalysis,theinstitutionaldetailsofthefacilityset-up,suchascollateraleligibility
and loan term, are not material.
22
===== PAGE 24 =====
SeeAppendixB.1foraderivation. Thevarianceinequation(8)increaseswiththelending
facilityspreadandconvergestothevarianceofverticaluncertainty 𝜎2
𝜈fromaboveastheex-
ante supply of reserves go to minus or plus infinity.14 Moreover, if horizontal uncertainty
is symmetric around zero, the variance is symmetric around the midpoint between the
kinks in the reserve demand curve. Additionally, if the probability density function
of horizontal uncertainty is also log-concave, the variance has a local maximum at the
midpointbetweenthekinks. Althoughwecannotproveitformally,inalloursimulations
withsymmetricsingle-peakeddistributionsofhorizontaluncertainty,thislocalmaximum
isalsotheuniquemaximum. 15 Inotherwords,ifthedistributionofhorizontaluncertainty
is sufficiently well-behaved, the variance of the spread monotonically increases as the ex
ante supply of reserves goes from minus infinity to the midpoint between the kinks in
the reserve demand curve and monotonically decreases above that point.16 The proofs of
these results are in Appendix B.1.
4.2 Optimal Policy with a Lending Facility
To fix ideas, we start by analyzing optimal reserves provision with an exogenous lending
facility rate. This case may be relevant if there are constraints on the central bank that
prevent an optimal adjustment of the lending rate. In that case, the single choice facing
the central bank is the amount of ex-ante reserves provided to the financial sector. We
return to the joint decision of the lending rate and reserves below.
14Obviously, if the lending facility rate is equal to the interest rate on reserves, the variance is equal to𝜎2
𝜈
for all reserve levels. This is because, in this case, the reserve demand curve is a horizontal line at¯𝑆𝐿 = ¯𝑆.
15Inoursimulations,weusesymmetricsingle-peakeddensityfunctionssuchastheGaussianandLogistic
distributions, which are log-concave and decay exponentially in the tails, and the Student’s𝑡-distribution,
which is not log-concave and decays as a power law.
16If the distribution of horizontal uncertainty𝑔(𝜖) is single-peaked but not symmetric, the maximum of
the variance is between the kinks but not necessarily at the midpoint.
23
===== PAGE 25 =====
The first-order condition for the optimal level of reserves is given by:
(𝛼2 + 𝜆)(𝑋 − ¯𝑋) + 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋) + 𝛼(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) − 𝛼2𝒢( ¯𝜖)
= −𝛼(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿))( ¯𝑆𝐿 − ˆ𝑆) − 𝛼2(𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖𝐿) + 𝜇 (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)) = 0,
(9)
where the left-hand side of this equation coincides with the first-order condition absent a
lending facility. See Appendix B.2 for a derivation.
The right-hand side consists of two negative terms and a positive one. The negative
terms, that call for lower ex-ante reserves provision, arise from the fact that the lending
facilityguardsagainstlargeincreasesinthemarketspread. Sinceoptimalreservessupply
washigherunderuncertaintybecausespreadscouldrisearbitrarilybutcannotfallbelow
the reserve demand floor, this channel is now mitigated through the lending facility.
The positive term arises from the penalty placed on lending facility usage: a higher ex-
ante reserves supply lowers the probability that the lending facility will be used. Taken
together, equation (9) yields the following result.
Proposition 2 (Optimal Reserves Supply with Exogenous Lending Facility Rate)
For a given exogenous lending facility spread, under uncertainty about horizontal shifts in the
demand for reserves, the optimal supply of reserves may be higher or lower than absent the facility.
If the penalty associated with lending facility usage is sufficiently small, ex-ante optimal reserves
supply is lower with an exogenous lending facility.
The existence of the lending facility reduces the precautionary motive to supply reserves
to control rates because the facility introduces a cap on the market spread. However, if
𝜇 > 0,thefacilityalsointroducesaprecautionarymotivetoincreasethesupplyofreserves
to limit facility usage because the latter is costly for the central bank. If𝜇 is sufficiently
small, the first effect dominates, and the sum of the terms in the second line of first-order
condition (9) is positive, implying that the optimal ex-ante supply of reserves is smaller
24
===== PAGE 26 =====
with a lending facility than without. If, however,𝜇 is sufficiently large, the second effect
dominates, and the optimal supply of reserves exceeds that absent a lending facility. The
proofs of these results are in Appendix B.2.
Wenowanalyzetheoptimalchoiceforthelendingfacilityspread. Thefulloptimization
problem is described in equation (3), where the central bank jointly chooses the ex-ante
supplyofreserves, 𝑋, andthelendingratespread, ¯𝑆𝐿. Bothdecisionvariablesarechosen
before the realization of the shock.
The resulting first-order condition for the optimal choice of𝑋 remains the same as in
(9). In addition,the central bank also optimizes over the lending spread. Together, the
first- and second-order optimality conditions for𝑋 and ¯𝑆𝐿 yield the following result.
Proposition 3 (Optimal Choices with Endogenous Lending Facility Rate)
With joint uncertainty about𝜖 and 𝜈, the central bank makes the following choices:
1. The optimal choice of the lending rate spread,¯𝑆∗
𝐿 is given by:
¯𝑆∗
𝐿 = ˆ𝑆 + 𝜇
𝛼 ≥ ˆ𝑆,
which strictly increases withˆ𝑆 and 𝜇, and is independent ofˆ𝑋.
2. The optimal ex-ante supply of reserves is characterized by the implicit function:
(𝛼2 + 𝜆)(𝑋 − ¯𝑋) + 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋) + 𝛼(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) − 𝛼2𝒢( ¯𝜖) + 𝛼2(𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖𝐿) = 0;
as a result, the optimal ex ante supply of reserves is lower than the optimal supply absent
a lending facility. Moreover, the optimal supply of reserves decreases withˆ𝑆 and increases
with ˆ𝑋 and with𝜇.
Proof: See Appendix B.2 for details of the derivations. □
25
===== PAGE 27 =====
Theoptimallendingspreadisgreaterthanorequaltothetargetspread,withequality
in the limiting case of𝜇 = 0. If the central bank is indifferent to facility usage, it can
maximizeratecontrolbysettingthefacilityspreadequaltothetargetspread. Thischoice
caps the market spread exactly at the target and eliminates upward deviations. If the
centralbankperceivesacostoffacilityusage,itisoptimaltosetahigherfacilityspreadto
reducethelikelihoodthatbanksborrowfromthefacility. Forthesamereason,theoptimal
facilityspreadisincreasinginthesizeofthepenaltyonfacilityusage: centralbanksfacing
a higher penalty optimally set a higher facility spread to induce lower borrowing levels.
Whenthecentralbankjointlysetsthefacilityspreadandtheex-antesupplyofreserves,
the optimal supply is lower than absent the facility. By choosing the lending rate spread
optimally, the central bank minimizes the market-spread deviations from its target level
with a lower reserve supply. Note that the optimal ex-ante supply of reserves increases
with the penalty on facility usage,𝜇. There are two reasons for this result. First, if
the penalty is higher, the central bank prefers to provide more reserves to reduce the
likelihood of banks’ borrowing from the facility. Second, a higher penalty increases the
facility spread, which relaxes rate control; as a result, the central bank finds it optimal to
offset this indirect effect by increasing the ex-ante supply of reserves.
5 Rate Control and Monetary Policy Frameworks
In this section, we compare the variability of the interbank market rate under different
monetary policy implementation frameworks. We show that frameworks with scarce
reserves and large spreads between the lending facility rate and the interest rate on
reserve balances imply larger rate variability than frameworks with ample or abundant
reserves. To illustrate this result, we use both the results of our model for the variance of
themarketspreadunder uncertaintyandtheexperienceofthe UnitedStatesoverthelast
26
===== PAGE 28 =====
two decades. We also discuss additional considerations that might influence the central
bankoptimalpolicybyaffectingtheweights 𝜆and 𝜇inthecentralbankobjectivefunction
(3).
5.1 Rate Control: the U.S. Experience
Before the GFC, central bank reserves in the U.S. were kept scarce, and the spread be-
tween the lending facility rate and the interest rate on reserve balances—the so-called
“corridor”—was large.17 In our model, this framework corresponds to a system where
the target reserve levelˆ𝑋 is in the steep part of the reserve demand curve, and the target
spread ˆ𝑆 is far from both the lower and the upper asymptotes of the curve. This type
of framework can therefore be approximated by assuming that the demand for reserves
is simply given by the negatively-sloped line in equation (2). Since the demand curve is
linear, the central bank optimization problem in equation (3) is certainty equivalent, and
the optimal supply of reserves coincides with the optimal supply absent uncertainty. In
this limiting case, the variance of the optimal spread is18
Var[𝑆] = 𝜎2
𝜈 + 𝛼2𝜎2
𝜖 , (10)
which exceeds not only the variance when a lending facility with a narrow corridor is
present (equation (8)), but also the variance when the central bank operates a system of
ample or abundant reserves, i.e., near or at the lower asymptote of the reserve demand
curve, without a lending facility (equation (5)). The reason is that, when reserves are
scarce, the distribution of interest rate spreads is wider and symmetric. As reserves
increase, the demand curve flattens, truncating low realizations of the market spread.
17Reserves were not remunerated before the GFC. The Federal Reserve only started paying interest on
reserve balances on October 9, 2008.
18This result can be derived by simply taking the limit of the variance of the spread without lending
facility as reserves go to negative infinity, i.e., far from the curve’s lower asymptote.
27
===== PAGE 29 =====
Furthermore, as equation (10) shows, the variability of the market spread is independent
of the level of reserves in traditional scarce systems with large corridors, in contrast to its
variability in systems with narrow corridors or ample reserves (equations (5) and (8)).
Figure4showsthestandarddeviationofthespreadbetweenthefederalfundsrateand
ameasureofthetargetrate,aswellasthelevelofreserves,beforeandaftertheGFC. 19 The
volatility of the spread averaged 0.10 percentage points in 2000–08, when reserves were
scarce, and the corridor relatively large.20 Consistent with the results from our model,
as the supply of reserves increased and the Federal Reserve transitioned to a framework
with ample reserves, volatility decreased substantially in 2009 and has fluctuated around
0.01 percentage points since then.
5.2 Other considerations
Inadditiontoratecontrol(i.e.,keepingthemarketspreadclosetoitstargetlevel ˆ𝑆),other
factors may influence the central bank choice of the optimal ex-ante supply of reserves.
In our model, these factors are captured by the target reserve levelˆ𝑋, and their relative
importance in the central bank optimization problem by the penalty weight assigned to
deviationsfromthistarget, 𝜆. Financialstabilityconsiderationsareanimportantexample.
Ontheonehand,alevelofreservesthatsatiatesbanks’demandforreservessupportsthe
smooth functioning of financial markets by reducing the likelihood of a liquidity crunch
in wholesale funding markets (Afonso et al., 2021; Copeland et al., 2025), improving the
resilience of payment systems (Keister et al., 2008; Afonso et al., 2022; Goldstein et al.,
2023), reducingtheuseofintradayoverdraftsfromthecentralbank(Kroegeretal.,2018),
19By construction, the variance of the market rate minus its target is equal to Var(𝑆 − ˆ𝑆) = Var(𝑆) in our
model. Until December 2008, the Federal Open Market Committee set a target level for the federal funds
rate; since then, it has set a target range. In our calculations, we use the mid-point of the range post 2008.
20During2000–08,centralbankreserves(includingvaultcash)intheU.S.averaged$58.6billion(or0.68%
ofbankassets),andthespreadbetweenthelendingfacilityrateandtheinterestonreservebalances(which
was zero) averaged 3.66 percentage points. From 2009 to June 2025, these averages were $2.4 trillion (or
13.66% of bank assets) and 0.39 percentage points, respectively.
28
===== PAGE 30 =====
Figure 4:Bank Reserves and Variation in Daily Spread.The solid black line represents
the standard deviation of the daily interest rate spread. The spread is the difference
between the daily volume-weighted average federal funds rate and a measure of the
target rate; consistent with the changes in monetary policy implementation during the
sampleperiod,thetargetrateismeasuredasthefederalfundstargetratefor01/01/2000–
12/15/2008 and as the mid-point of the target range for 12/16/2008–06/30/2025. The
90-business-day windows (roughly a quarter) roll daily. The gray shaded area shows
centralbankreserves,includingvaultcash. DataarefromJanuary2000toJune2025. The
daily volume-weighted average federal funds rate is publicly available from the Federal
Reserve Economic Data, FRED (“EFFR,” 01/01/2000–02/29/2016) and from the Federal
ReserveBankofNewYork(03/01/2016–06/30/2025). Thedailyfederalfundstargetrate,
and the upper limit and lower limit of the federal funds target range are available from
FRED (“DFEDTAR,” “DFEDTARU,” and “DFEDTARL”). Monthly data on reserves are
available from FRED (“TOTRESNS”).
and discouraging excessive creation of runnable short-term debt by the private sector
(Hanson et al., 2015; Greenwood et al., 2016).
Ontheotherhand,largeinjectionsofreservesinthebankingsystemcanhinderfinan-
cial stability if banks finance these balance-sheet expansions with liquidity commitments
that are difficult to unwind during quantitative tightening, becoming more vulnerable to
liquidityshocksandmoredependentoncentralbankliquidity(AcharyaandRajan,2024;
Acharya et al., 2023). Moreover, if banks are subject to balance-sheet costs, large reserve
29
===== PAGE 31 =====
injections tighten these constraints and can therefore crowd out bank lending to the real
economy(Martinetal.,2016;Diamondetal.,2020). Prolongedperiodsofhighreservelev-
elscanalsocausepoliticaleconomyconcernsduetolargefluctuationsincentralbanknet
incomeandremittancestothegovernment(Bindseil,2016). Finally,alargeexantesupply
of reserves discourages unsecured overnight money market activity, possibly hindering
market discipline and price discovery and limiting the market’s ability to redistribute
reserves in times of stress (Borio, 2023).
Note that the same concern about market disintermediation also applies to standing
lending facilities with a low interest rate spread relative to the interest rate on reserves: if
the price of contingent central bank liquidity is attractive relative to the price of private
liquidity, interbank market volume may decline. In our model, central banks more con-
cerned about this issue would have a larger penalty weight on the usage of the lending
facility, 𝜇.
6 Conclusion
This paper analyzes the optimal supply of central bank reserves under uncertainty from
the perspective of rate control and monetary policy implementation. Absent a lending
facility, uncertainty about the level of reserves that satiates banks’ demand for them
increases the optimal supply of reserves. With a sufficiently high degree of uncertainty,
it is optimal to supply a level of reserves that exceeds the satiation point even though
the central bank targets the region below demand satiation; that is, the optimal supply
of reserves lies in the abundant reserves region even if the central bank targets ample
reserves.
Withalendingfacility,theoptimalsupplyofreservesdependscriticallyonthecentral
bank preferences and constraints on the design of the facility. If the lending facility rate
30
===== PAGE 32 =====
spreadcanbechosenoptimallyandjointlywiththeex-antesupplyofreserves,theoptimal
ex ante supply is smaller than the one obtained absent a lending facility. In contrast, if
there are frictions preventing the central bank from optimally setting the lending facility
jointly with the ex ante supply of reserves, the optimal supply may be larger than absent
the facility.
Akeyadvantageofthisanalysisisthatitisanalyticallytractableandcanderiveexplicit
expressions that convey the intuition. Potential extensions of the model include adding
intertemporal aspects of the supply and demand for reserves, structural changes, and
the role of experimentation and learning in the design of optimal policy. In addition,
this model provides a flexible structure that can be empirically implemented, allowing
for the estimation of the effects of uncertainty on the supply for reserves across different
implementation frameworks.
31
===== PAGE 33 =====
References
Acharya, Viral V. and Raghuram Rajan, “Liquidity, liquidity everywhere, not a drop to
use–Whyfloodingbankswithcentralbankreservesmaynotexpandliquidity,” Journal
of Finance, 2024,79, 2943–2991.
, Rahul Chauhan, Raghuram Rajan, and Sascha Steffen, “Liquidity Dependence and
the Waxing and Waning of Central Bank Balance Sheets,”NBER Working Paper 31050,
March 2023.
Afonso, Gara and Ricardo Lagos, “Trade Dynamics in the Market for Federal Funds,”
Econometrica, 2015,83, 263–313.
,DarrellDuffie,LorenzoRigon,andHyunSongShin ,“HowAbundantAreReserves?
Evidence from the Wholesale Payment System,”Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff
Reports No. 1040, 2022.
, DomenicoGiannone,GabrieleLaSpada, andJohnC.Williams , “Scarce,Abundant,
or Ample? A Time-Varying Model of the Reserve Demand Curve,”Journal of Finance,
2025. Forthcoming.
, Marco Cipriani, Adam Copeland, Anna Kovner, Gabriele La Spada, and Antoine
Martin, “The Market Events of Mid-September 2019,”Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Economic Policy Review, 2021,27(2).
,RocArmenter,andBenjaminLester ,“Amodelofthefederalfundsmarket: Yesterday,
today, and tomorrow,”Review of Economic Dynamics, 2019,33, 177–204.
Armenter, Roc and Benjamin Lester, “Excess Reserves and Monetary Policy Implemen-
tation,”Review of Economic Dynamics, 2017,23, 212–235.
32
===== PAGE 34 =====
Bank of Canada , “Framework for market operations and liq-
uidity provision,” available at https://www.bankofcanada.
ca/markets/market-operations-liquidity-provision/
framework-market-operations-liquidity-provision/, 2025.
BankofEngland ,“ExplanatoryNote: ManagingtheoperationalimplicationsofAPFun-
windforassetsales,controlofshort-termmarketinterestratesandtheBankofEngland’s
balancesheet,”August4,2022,availableathttps://www.bankofengland.co.uk/markets/market-
notices/2022/august/explanatory-note-on-operational-implications-of-apf-unwind, 2022.
, “Transitioning to a repo-led operating framework,” December 9, 2024, avail-
able at https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/paper/2024/dp/transitioning-to-a-repo-led-operating-
framework, 2024.
Bernanke, Ben S., “The New Tools of Monetary Policy,”American Economic Review, April
2020, 110(4), 943–83.
Bianchi, Javier and Saki Bigio, “Banks, Liquidity Management, and Monetary Policy,”
Econometrica, 2022,90, 391–454.
Bigio, Saki and YuliySannikov, “A Model ofCredit, Money, Interest, and Prices,”NBER
Working Paper 28540, March 2021.
Bindseil, Ulrich, “Evaluating Monetary Policy Operational Frameworks,” Technical Re-
port, Economic Policy Symposium at Jackson Hole, Wyoming. 2016.
Bok,Brandyn,ThomasM.Mertens,andJohnC.Williams ,“MacroeconomicDriversand
thePricingofUncertainty,Inflation,andBonds,” JournalofFinancialEconomics ,October
2025, 172.
Borio, Claudio, “Getting up from the Floor,”SUERF Policy Notes, May 2023.
33
===== PAGE 35 =====
Brainard,WilliamC. ,“UncertaintyandtheEffectivenessofPolicy,”TheAmericanEconomic
Review, 1967,57, 411–425.
Copeland, Adam, Darrell Duffie, and Yilin Yang, “Reserves Were Not So Ample After
All,”Quarterly Journal of Economics, February 2025,140, 239–281.
Diamond,William,ZhengyangJiang,andYimingMa ,“TheReserveSupplyChannelof
UnconventionalMonetaryPolicy,”JacobsLevyEquityManagementCenterforQuantitative
Financial Research Paper, 2020.
Duffie, Darrell , “Post-Crisis Bank Regulations and Financial Market Liquid-
ity,”https://www.darrellduffie.com/uploads/policy/DuffieBaffiLecture2018.
pdf March 2018.
d’Avernas, Adrien, Baiyang Han, and Quentin Vandeweyer, “Intraday Liquidity and
Money Market Dislocations,”Working Paper, 2023.
Ennis,HubertoM.andToddKeister ,“UnderstandingMonetaryPolicyImplementation,”
Economic Quarterly, 2008,94, 235–263.
European Central Bank Governing Council, “Statement By the Governing Council:
Changes to the operational framework for implementing monetary policy,”March
13, 2024, available athttps://www.ecb.europa.eu/press/pr/date/2024/html/ecb.
pr240313~807e240020.en.html, 2024.
Federal Reserve, “Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee, April 27–28, 2021,”
https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/files/fomcminutes20210428.
pdf April 2021.
Goldstein,Itay,MingYang,andYaoZeng ,“Payments,Reserves,andFinancialFragility,”
Working Paper, 2023.
34
===== PAGE 36 =====
Greenwood, Robin, Samuel G. Hanson, and Jeremy C. Stein, “The Federal Reserve’s
BalanceSheetasaFinancial-StabilityTool,” 2016EconomicPolicySymposiumProceedings ,
2016.
Hanson,SamuelG.,DavidSScharfstein,andAdiSunderam ,“AnEvaluationofMoney
Market Fund Reform Proposals,”IMF Economic Review, 2015,63 (4), 984–1023.
Keister, Todd, Antoine Martin, and James McAndrews, “Divorcing Money from Mone-
tary Policy,”Federal Reserve Bank of New York Economic Policy Review, 2008,14, 41–56.
Kent, Christopher, “The RBA’s Monetary Policy Implementation System – Some Impor-
tant Updates,”Speech at the KangaNews Debt Capital Markets Summit on April 2, 2025,
2025.
Kim, Kyungmin, Antoine Martin, and Ed Nosal, “Can the U.S. Interbank Market Be
Revived?,”Journal of Money, Credit and Banking, June 2020,52, 1645–1689.
Kroeger, Alexander, John P. McGowan, and Asani Sarkar, “The Pre-Crisis Monetary
Policy Implementation Framework,”Federal Reserve Bank of New York Economic Policy
Review, October 2018,24, 28–70.
Lagos, Ricardo and Gastón Navarro, “Monetary Policy Operations: Theory, Evidence,
and Tools for Quantitative Analysis,”NBER Working Paper 31370, June 2023.
Lopez-Salido, David and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen, “Reserve Demand and Balance
Sheet Run-off,”Federal Reserve Board Working Paper, 2022.
Martin, Antoine, James McAndrews, Ali Palida, and David Skeie, “Federal Reserve
Tools for Managing Rates and Reserves,”Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Reports
No. 642, April 2019.
35
===== PAGE 37 =====
, , and David Skeie, “Bank Lending in Times of Large Bank Reserves,”International
Journal of Central Banking, December 2016,12 (4), 193–222.
Mertens, Thomas M. and John C Williams, “What to Expect from the Lower Bound on
Interest Rates: Evidence from Derivatives Prices,”American Economic Review, 2021,111
(8), 2473–2505.
Poole,William,“CommercialBankReserveManagementinaStochasticModel: Implica-
tions for Monetary Policy,”The Journal of Finance, 1968,23 (5), 769–791.
Yang, David, “What Quantity of Reserves Is Sufficient?,”Working Paper, 2022.
36
===== PAGE 38 =====
Appendix
A Proofs of Section 3 (without Lending Facility)
A.1 Optimal supply absent uncertainty
In this section, we derive the optimal supply of reserves absent uncertainty. We start by
assumingthatbothcentralbanktargetsareintheampleregion,i.e., ˆ𝑋 < ¯𝑋 and ˆ𝑆 > ¯𝑆. To
derive the optimal supply in this case, we can simply take the first-order condition of the
central bank’s objective function in the ample reserves region:
0 = 𝜕ℒ
𝜕𝑋 = 1
2

−2𝛼
 ¯𝑆 − 𝛼(𝑋∗ − ¯𝑋) − ˆ𝑆

+ 2𝜆(𝑋∗ − ˆ𝑋)
	
= (𝛼2 + 𝜆)𝑋∗ − 𝛼

¯𝑆 + 𝛼 ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑆

− 𝜆 ˆ𝑋
= (𝛼2 + 𝜆)(𝑋∗ − ˆ𝑋) + 𝛼( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) + 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋),
which gives𝑋∗ = ¯𝑋 − 1
𝛼2 + 𝜆 [𝛼( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) + 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋)] < ¯𝑋. The second-order condition is
𝜕2ℒ
𝜕𝑋2 = 𝛼2 + 𝜆 > 0, which holds by assumption.
Pluggingtheoptimalsupplyofreservesabsentuncertaintyinthedeterministicversion
of the reserve demand curve, we obtain the optimal spread absent uncertainty
𝑆∗ = ˆ𝑆 − 𝜆
𝛼2 + 𝜆 ( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆 − 𝛼( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋)).
Since the spread at the level of reservesˆ𝑋 is 𝑆( ˆ𝑋) = ˆ𝑆 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋), we can rewrite𝑆∗ as
𝑆∗ = ˆ𝑆 − 𝜆
𝛼2 + 𝜆 ( ˆ𝑆 − ( ¯𝑆 − 𝛼( ˆ𝑋 − ¯𝑋))) = ˆ𝑆 − 𝜆
𝛼2 + 𝜆 ( ˆ𝑆 − 𝑆( ˆ𝑋)) = 𝛼2
𝛼2 + 𝜆
ˆ𝑆 + 𝜆
𝛼2 + 𝜆 𝑆( ˆ𝑋).
If ˆ𝑋 < ¯𝑋 and ˆ𝑆 = ¯𝑆, theoptimalsupplyofreservesisthesameasabove. Thereasonis
37
===== PAGE 39 =====
thatthecentralbankhasnoincentivetosupply 𝑋 > ¯𝑋 tomeet ˆ𝑆 = ¯𝑆 becausethedemand
curve is flat at¯𝑆 for 𝑋 ≥ ¯𝑋; the optimization problem can therefore be solved by taking
the first-order condition in the ample region.
If ˆ𝑋 > ¯𝑋 and ˆ𝑆 = ¯𝑆, the problem is trivial: the central bank will supply exactly
ˆ𝑋 because this choice sets both the squared deviation from the reserve target and the
squared deviation from the spread target equal to zero.
If ˆ𝑋 > ¯𝑋 and ˆ𝑆 > ¯𝑆, the optimal solution is bang-bang, depending on the weight𝜆
assignedbythecentralbanktodeviationsfromthereservetarget. Ifthesolutionisinthe
abundant region, it must beˆ𝑋: any other level of abundant reserves would increase the
squared deviations from the reserve target without reducing the squared deviation from
the spread target (which is equal to( ¯𝑆 − ˆ𝑆)2 for all𝑋 ≥ ¯𝑋). If the solution is in the ample
region, it must be equal to the solution of the first-order condition above. To identify
the threshold 𝜆 that determines which solution is the global minimum, we just need to
compare the values of the objective function at the two local minima:
ℒ( ˆ𝑋) = 1
2

ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆
 2
,
ℒ(𝑋∗) = 1
2
( h
¯𝑆 + 𝛼
𝛼2 + 𝜆

𝛼( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) + 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋)

− ˆ𝑆
i 2
+ 𝜆

¯𝑋 − 1
𝛼2 + 𝜆

𝛼( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) + 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋)

− ˆ𝑋
 2)
= 1
2

ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆
 2 𝜆
𝛼2 + 𝜆

1 + 𝛼
ˆ𝑋 − ¯𝑋
ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆
 2
.
Supplying reserves exactly equal toˆ𝑋 is optimal if and only if 𝜆
𝛼2 + 𝜆

1 + 𝛼
ˆ𝑋 − ¯𝑋
ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆
 2
> 1.
Since the left-hand side of this inequality is strictly increasing in𝜆, the inequality holds if
and only if𝜆 > 𝛼
ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆
ˆ𝑋 − ¯𝑋

2 + 𝛼
ˆ𝑋 − ¯𝑋
ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆
 −1
. If 𝜆 is below this threshold, the optimal supply
of reserves is in the ample region and is given by the first order condition above.
38
===== PAGE 40 =====
A.2 Mean spread and variance of the spread
In deriving the properties of the model under uncertainty, it is useful to define two
functions related to the cumulative distribution function𝐺(·). First, define the super-
cumulative distribution function
𝒢(𝑎) =
∫ 𝑎
−∞
𝐺(𝜖)𝑑𝜖 ≥ 0.
Since 𝜖 has zero mean,𝒢(𝑎) ≥ 𝑎 for all𝑎. Second, define its integral
G(𝑎) =
∫ 𝑎
−∞
𝒢(𝜖)𝑑𝜖 ≥ 0,
which we refer to as the super-super cumulative distribution function. Note thatG′(𝑎) =
𝒢(𝑎) and 𝒢′(𝑎) = 𝐺(𝑎). Figure A.1 depicts the functions𝒢 and G for the standard normal
distribution.
Figure A.1: Super-cumulative Distribution Function of𝜖 and its Integral.This figure
plots the super-cumulative distribution function𝒢 and its integral G for the standard
normal distribution.
39
===== PAGE 41 =====
Based on this notation, the expected spread is
E𝑆 =
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈) 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖 +
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖)) 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖
= ¯𝑆 −
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖))𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜖
= ¯𝑆 − 𝛼
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
(𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜖 = ¯𝑆 + 𝛼

𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖

≥ max
 ¯𝑆 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋), ¯𝑆

,
where for the last inequality we used𝒢(𝑎) ≥ 0and 𝒢(𝑎) ≥ 𝑎 for all𝑎. Its derivative is
𝑑E[𝑆]
𝑑𝑋 = −𝛼 (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)) ≤ 0,
which shows that the mean spread decreases with reserves.
To derive the variance of the spread, we first derive the expected value of the squared
spread as follows
E 
𝑆2
=
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
  ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 2 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖 +
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
 ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼  𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖 2
𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖
=
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞

¯𝑆2 + 2𝜈 ¯𝑆 + 𝜈2

𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖+
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞

( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈)2 − 2𝛼( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈)( ¯𝜖 − 𝜖) + 𝛼2( ¯𝜖 − 𝜖)2
𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖
= ¯𝑆2𝐺( ¯𝜖) + 2 ¯𝑆
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
𝜈 𝑓 (𝜈)d𝜈

𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 + 𝜎2
𝜈𝐺( ¯𝜖) + ¯𝑆2 [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] +
2 ¯𝑆
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
𝜈 𝑓 (𝜈)d𝜈

𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 + 𝜎2
𝜈 [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] − 2𝛼 ¯𝑆
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
𝑓 (𝜈)d𝜈

( ¯𝜖 − 𝜖)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖−
2𝛼
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
𝜈 𝑓 (𝜈)d𝜈

( ¯𝜖 − 𝜖)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 + 𝛼2
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
𝑓 (𝜈)d𝜈

( ¯𝜖 − 𝜖)2 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖
=𝜎2
𝜈 + ¯𝑆2 − 2𝛼 ¯𝑆

¯𝜖 (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)) −
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖

+
𝛼2

¯𝜖2 (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)) − 2 ¯𝜖
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 +
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
𝜖2 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖

40
===== PAGE 42 =====
where the first equality holds because𝜖 and 𝜈 are independent, and the fourth equality
holds because𝜈 has zero mean.
Since 𝜖 has zero mean and finite variance𝜎2
𝜖, using integration by parts, we can write
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 = −
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 = − ¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖) +
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
𝐺(𝜖)d𝜖 = − ¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖) + 𝒢( ¯𝜖),
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
𝜖2 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 = 𝜎2
𝜖 −
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
𝜖2 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 = 𝜎2
𝜖 − ¯𝜖2𝐺( ¯𝜖) +
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
2𝜖𝐺(𝜖)d𝜖
= 𝜎2
𝜖 − ¯𝜖2𝐺( ¯𝜖) + 2

¯𝜖𝒢( ¯𝜖) −
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
𝒢(𝜖)d𝜖

= 𝜎2
𝜖 − ¯𝜖2𝐺( ¯𝜖) + 2 ¯𝜖𝒢( ¯𝜖) − 2G( ¯𝜖),
where we usedlim𝑥→−∞ 𝒢(𝑥) = lim𝑥→−∞ G(𝑥) = 0.
Using these expressions, we can write
E 
𝑆2
=𝜎2
𝜈 + ¯𝑆2 − 2𝛼 ¯𝑆

¯𝜖 (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)) −
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖

+
𝛼2

¯𝜖2 (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)) − 2 ¯𝜖
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 +
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
𝜖2 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖

=𝜎2
𝜈 + ¯𝑆2 − 2𝛼 ¯𝑆 [ ¯𝜖 − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)] + 𝛼2 
¯𝜖2 [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] − 2 ¯𝜖 [− ¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖) + 𝒢( ¯𝜖)] + 𝜎2
𝜖 − ¯𝜖2𝐺( ¯𝜖) +
2 ¯𝜖𝒢( ¯𝜖) − 2G( ¯𝜖)}
=𝜎2
𝜈 + ¯𝑆2 + 2𝛼 ¯𝑆 [𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖] + 𝛼2 
¯𝜖2 + 𝜎2
𝜖 − 2G( ¯𝜖)

.
Putting together this expression with the one for the expected spread, we obtain the
variance of the spread as
Var[𝑆] =E 
𝑆2
− (E[𝑆])2 = 𝜎2
𝜈 + ¯𝑆2 + 2𝛼 ¯𝑆 [𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖] + 𝛼2 
¯𝜖2 + 𝜎2
𝜖 − 2G( ¯𝜖)

−
 ¯𝑆 + 𝛼 (𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖)
 2
=𝜎2
𝜈 − 𝛼2 [𝒢(𝜖) − 𝜖]2 + 𝛼2 
¯𝜖2 + 𝜎2
𝜖 − 2G( ¯𝜖)

.
41
===== PAGE 43 =====
Taking the derivative of this expression with respect to the level of reserves𝑋, we get
𝑑Var[𝑆]
𝑑𝑋 = −2𝛼2(𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖) + 𝛼2(2 ¯𝜖 − 2𝒢( ¯𝜖))
= −2𝛼2𝐺( ¯𝜖)(𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖) < 0,
where the inequality follows from𝒢( ¯𝜖) > ¯𝜖 for all reserve values.
To prove the limiting behavior of Var[𝑆(𝑋)] as 𝑋 goes to plus and minus infinity, we
use the following equalities, which are derived using integration by parts:
𝒢(𝑥) =
∫ 𝑥
−∞
𝐺(𝑢)d𝑢 = 𝑥𝐺 (𝑥) −
∫ 𝑥
−∞
𝑢 𝑔(𝑢)d𝑢,
G(𝑥) =
∫ 𝑥
−∞
𝒢(𝑢)d𝑢 = 𝑥𝒢(𝑥) − 𝑥2
2 𝐺(𝑥) +
∫ 𝑥
−∞
𝑢2
2 𝑔(𝑢)d𝑢.
Plugging these equalities in the expression for the variance above, we obtain:
lim
𝑋→∞
Var[𝑆] =𝜎2
𝜈 + lim
𝑋→∞
n
−𝛼2 [𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖]2 + 𝛼2 
¯𝜖2 + 𝜎2
𝜖 − 2G( ¯𝜖)
o
=𝜎2
𝜈 + 𝛼2𝜎2
𝜖+
lim
𝑋→∞
(
−𝛼2

¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖) −
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
𝑢 𝑔(𝑢)d𝑢 − ¯𝜖
 2
+ 𝛼2 ¯𝜖2−
2𝛼2

¯𝜖

¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖) −
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
𝑢 𝑔(𝑢)d𝑢

− ¯𝜖2
2 𝐺( ¯𝜖) +
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
𝑢2
2 𝑔(𝑢)d𝑢

=𝜎2
𝜈 + 𝛼2𝜎2
𝜖 + lim
𝑋→∞

𝛼2 ¯𝜖2 − 𝛼2 ¯𝜖2 − 𝛼2𝜎2
𝜖
	
= 𝜎2
𝜈,
where we used lim
𝑥→∞
𝐺(𝑥) = 1 and the fact that 𝜖 has zero mean and finite variance.
42
===== PAGE 44 =====
Similarly,
lim
𝑋→−∞
Var[𝑆] =𝜎2
𝜈 + lim
𝑋→∞
n
−𝛼2 [𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖]2 + 𝛼2 
¯𝜖2 + 𝜎2
𝜖 − 2G( ¯𝜖)
o
𝜎2
𝜈 + 𝛼2𝜎2
𝜖 + lim
𝑋→∞

−𝛼2 ¯𝜖2 + 𝛼2 ¯𝜖2	
= 𝜎2
𝜈 + 𝛼2𝜎2
𝜖 ,
where we used the fact thatlim
𝑥→−∞
𝒢(𝑥) = lim
𝑥→−∞
G(𝑥) = 0.
A.3 Optimal supply of reserves under uncertainty
The first-order condition of the central bank minimization problem (3) is
∫ ∞
−∞
( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − ˆ𝑆)2 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑑𝜈𝑔( ¯𝜖) 𝑑 ¯𝜖
𝑑𝑋
−
∫ ∞
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞

¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋 − ¯𝜖) − ˆ𝑆
 2
𝑓 (𝜈)𝑑𝜈𝑔( ¯𝜖) 𝑑 ¯𝜖
𝑑𝑋
+
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
−𝛼( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆) 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖 + 𝜆(𝑋∗∗ − ˆ𝑋) = 0,
where the first two terms cancel out when substituting in¯𝜖 = 𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋. As a result, the
first-order condition can be simplified to
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
−𝛼( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆) 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖 + 𝜆(𝑋∗∗ − ˆ𝑋) = 0. (A.1)
Using the representation of
∫ ∞
¯𝜖 𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 introduced in Appendix A.2 and the fact that
𝜈 has zero mean, we can simplify the first-order condition in equation (A.1) to
0 =
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
−𝛼( ¯𝑆 − 𝛼(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜖 + 𝜆(𝑋∗∗ − ˆ𝑋)
= (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))

−𝛼( ¯𝑆 − ˆ𝑆) + 𝛼2(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋)

−
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
𝛼2𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜖 + 𝜆(𝑋∗∗ − ˆ𝑋)
= (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))

−𝛼( ¯𝑆 − ˆ𝑆) + 𝛼2(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋)

+ 𝛼2( ¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)) + 𝜆(𝑋∗∗ − ˆ𝑋).
43
===== PAGE 45 =====
Using the definition¯𝜖 = 𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋, we get
−𝛼(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))( ¯𝑆 − ˆ𝑆) + (𝛼2 + 𝜆)(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋) − 𝛼2𝒢( ¯𝜖) + 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋) = 0,
which we can rearrange as
𝑋∗∗ = ¯𝑋 − 𝛼
𝛼2 + 𝜆 (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) − 𝜆
𝛼2 + 𝜆 ( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋) + 𝛼2
𝛼2 + 𝜆𝒢( ¯𝜖),
or alternatively as
𝑋∗∗ = 𝑋∗ + 𝛼
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
𝐺( ¯𝜖)( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) +
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
𝒢( ¯𝜖). (A.2)
Finally, differentiating the left-hand side of the first-order condition in equation (A.1)
yields the following second-order condition
Γ ≡ 𝑑
𝑑𝑋
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
−𝛼( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆) 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖 + 𝜆(𝑋 − ˆ𝑋)
=
∫ ∞
−∞
𝛼( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − ˆ𝑆) 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔( ¯𝜖)𝑑𝜈 +
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
(𝛼 + 𝜂)2 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖 + 𝜆
= − 𝛼( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆)𝑔( ¯𝜖) + (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))𝛼2 + 𝜆 > 0.
(A.3)
To derive the comparative statics of the optimal supply of reserves under uncertainty
𝑋∗∗ with respect to the target level of reserves and the target spread, we apply the im-
plicit function theorem. Let 𝐹(𝑋∗∗) = 0 be the first-order condition derived above; it is
straightforward to show that
𝑑𝑋 ∗∗
𝑑 ˆ𝑋
= −
 𝜕𝐹/𝜕 ˆ𝑋
𝜕𝐹/𝜕𝑋

−1
𝑋=𝑋∗∗
= 𝜆
Γ ≥ 0,and
𝑑𝑋 ∗∗
𝑑 ˆ𝑆
= −
 𝜕𝐹/𝜕 ˆ𝑆
𝜕𝐹/𝜕𝑋

−1
𝑋=𝑋∗∗
= − 𝛼(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))
Γ ≤ 0,
44
===== PAGE 46 =====
where Γ > 0 is the second-order condition.
UsingtheformulafortheexpectedspreadunderuncertaintyderivedinAppendixA.2,
we can write the expected spread at the optimal reserve level𝑋∗∗ as
E𝑆∗∗ = ¯𝑆 − 𝛼(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋) + 𝛼𝒢( ¯𝜖)
= ¯𝑆 − 𝛼(𝑋∗ + Δ𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋) + 𝛼𝒢( ¯𝜖)
= 𝑆∗ + 𝛼(𝒢( ¯𝜖) − Δ𝑋∗∗),
where Δ𝑋∗∗ = 𝑋∗∗ − 𝑋∗ ≥ 0. Since𝑋∗ ≤ ¯𝑋,wehave Δ𝑋∗∗ ≥ 𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋 = ¯𝜖. Since𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖 ≥ 0,
we cannot sign𝒢( ¯𝜖) − Δ𝑋∗∗. Thus, we getE𝑆∗∗ ≶ 𝑆∗.
Substituting in for𝑋∗∗ delivers
E𝑆∗∗ = ¯𝑆 − 𝛼
𝛼2 + 𝜆

−𝛼(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) − 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋) + 𝛼2𝒢( ¯𝜖)

+ 𝛼𝒢( ¯𝜖)
= ¯𝑆 − 𝛼2
𝛼2 + 𝜆 (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) + 𝛼𝜆
𝛼2 + 𝜆 ( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋) − 𝛼3
𝛼2 + 𝜆𝒢( ¯𝜖) + 𝛼𝒢( ¯𝜖)
= ¯𝑆 − 𝛼2
𝛼2 + 𝜆 (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) + 𝛼𝜆
𝛼2 + 𝜆 ( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋) + 𝛼𝜆
𝛼2 + 𝜆𝒢( ¯𝜖).
A.4 Extensions
A.4.1 Uncertainty about the slope
With uncertainty about the slope of the demand curve, the reserve demand curve takes
the form
𝑆 =
 

¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − (𝛼 + 𝜂)(𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) if 𝑋 < ¯𝑋 + 𝜖,
¯𝑆 + 𝜈 else,
where 𝜂isashocktotheslopethatisindependentfromthehorizontalandverticalshocks.
The analogous result to Proposition 1 is the following proposition.
45
===== PAGE 47 =====
Proposition 4 (Uncertainty about the Slope Increases the Optimal Supply of Reserves)
In the case of joint uncertainty about𝜖, 𝜈, and𝜂, the optimal level of reserves,𝑋∗∗, is given by:
𝑋∗∗ = 𝑋∗ +
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
𝒢( ¯𝜖) + 𝛼
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆)𝐺( ¯𝜖)
+
𝜎2
𝜂
(𝛼2 + 𝜆)(𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆)

𝛼( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) + 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋)

≥ 𝑋∗,
which increases withˆ𝑋 and with𝜎2
𝜂 and decreases withˆ𝑆.
The remainder of this section shows the proof of this proposition. The first-order
condition of the problem with uncertainty about the slope is
1
2
∫ ∞
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − ˆ𝑆)2 𝑓 (𝜈)ℎ(𝜂)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜂𝑔( ¯𝜖) 𝑑 ¯𝜖
𝑑𝑋
− 1
2
∫ ∞
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞

¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − (𝛼 + 𝜂)(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋 − ¯𝜖) − ˆ𝑆
 2
𝑓 (𝜈)ℎ(𝜂)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜂𝑔( ¯𝜖) 𝑑 ¯𝜖
𝑑𝑋
+
∫ ∞
−∞
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
−(𝛼 + 𝜂)( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − (𝛼 + 𝜂)(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆) 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)ℎ(𝜂)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖𝑑𝜂 + 𝜆(𝑋∗∗ − ˆ𝑋) = 0,
where the first two terms cancel out when substituting in¯𝜖 = 𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋. As a result, the
first-order condition can be simplified to
∫ ∞
−∞
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
−(𝛼 + 𝜂)( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − (𝛼 + 𝜂)(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆) 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)ℎ(𝜂)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖𝑑𝜂 + 𝜆(𝑋∗∗ − ˆ𝑋) = 0.
Using the same steps as in Appendix A.3, we simplify the first-order condition to
0 =
∫ ∞
−∞
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
−(𝛼 + 𝜂)( ¯𝑆 − (𝛼 + 𝜂)(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆)𝑔(𝜖)ℎ(𝜂)𝑑𝜖𝑑𝜂 + 𝜆(𝑋∗∗ − ˆ𝑋)
= (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))

−𝛼( ¯𝑆 − ˆ𝑆) + (𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂)(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋)

−
∫ ∞
−∞
∫ ∞
¯𝜖
(𝛼 + 𝜂)2𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)ℎ(𝜂)𝑑𝜖𝑑𝜂 + 𝜆(𝑋∗∗ − ˆ𝑋)
= (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))

−𝛼( ¯𝑆 − ˆ𝑆) + (𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂)(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋)

+ (𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂)( ¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)) + 𝜆(𝑋∗∗ − ˆ𝑋),
46
===== PAGE 48 =====
where we used the fact that𝜖, 𝜈, and𝜂 have zero mean. Using the definition¯𝜖 = 𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋,
we get
−𝛼(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))( ¯𝑆 − ˆ𝑆) + (𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆)(𝑋∗∗ − ¯𝑋) − (𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂)𝒢( ¯𝜖) + 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋) = 0,
which we can rearrange as
𝑋∗∗ = ¯𝑋 − 𝛼
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) − 𝜆
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋) +
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
𝒢( ¯𝜖).
Fromthisequation,usingtheimplicitfunctiontheorem,weobtain 𝑑𝑋 ∗∗
𝑑 ˆ𝑋
= 𝜆
Γ

𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
 ≥
0, 𝑑𝑋 ∗∗
𝑑 ˆ𝑆
= − 𝛼(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))
Γ

𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
 ≤ 0, and 𝑑𝑋 ∗∗
𝑑𝜎2
𝜂
= 𝛼(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) + 𝜆( ¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋) + 𝜆𝒢( ¯𝜖)
Γ(𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆)2 ≥ 0,
where Γ > 0is the second-order condition for the optimal supply to be a minimum of the
objective function.
Using 𝑋∗ = ¯𝑋 − 1
𝛼2 + 𝜆
h
𝛼

ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆

+ 𝜆

¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋
i
, we can write the optimal supply as
𝑋∗∗ =𝑋∗ +
𝛼

ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆

𝛼2 + 𝜆 −
𝛼 (1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))

ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆

𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
+
𝜆

¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋

𝛼2 + 𝜆 −
𝜆

¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋

𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
+
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
𝒢( ¯𝜖)
=𝑋∗ +
𝛼

ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆

(𝛼2 + 𝜆)(𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆)
h
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆 − (𝛼2 + 𝜆)(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖))
i
+
𝜆

¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋

(𝛼2 + 𝜆)(𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆)
h
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆 − 𝛼2 − 𝜆
i
+
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
𝒢( ¯𝜖)
=𝑋∗ +
𝛼𝐺( ¯𝜖)

ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆

𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
+
𝜎2
𝜂
h
𝛼

ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆

+ 𝜆

¯𝑋 − ˆ𝑋
i
(𝛼2 + 𝜆)(𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆)
+
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂
𝛼2 + 𝜎2
𝜂 + 𝜆
𝒢( ¯𝜖) ≥ 𝑋∗.
47
===== PAGE 49 =====
A.4.2 Including a region of scarce reserves
In this section, we derive the optimal supply of reserves in the presence of a third region,
in which the slope of the reserve demand curve is steeper than in the ample reserves
region; we refer to this region as the region of scarce reserves. Specifically, we introduce
a second kink in the demand curve at¯𝑋2 < ¯𝑋1, where ¯𝑋1 now denotes the cutoff between
ample and abundant reserves (formerly¯𝑋), and ¯𝑋2 represents the cutoff between scarce
and ample reserves.
The resulting reserve demand curve is given by:
𝑆 =
 

¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋1 − 𝜖) − 𝛽(𝑋 − ¯𝑋2 − 𝜖) if 𝜖 > 𝑋 − ¯𝑋2,
¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋1 − 𝜖) if 𝑋 − ¯𝑋2 ≥ 𝜖 > 𝑋 − ¯𝑋1,
¯𝑆 + 𝜈 if 𝜖 < 𝑋 − ¯𝑋1,
where 𝛽 ≥ 0 is the increase in the slope in the scarce reserves region relative to that
in ample reserves region (𝛼). Absent any type of uncertainty, the spread is equal to
¯𝑆 + 𝛼( ¯𝑋1 − ¯𝑋2) > ¯𝑆 at the kink between scarce and ample reserves,¯𝑋2.
For simplicity, we assume that the central bank targets the ample region for both the
spread and reserves (i.e.,¯𝑆 < ˆ𝑆 < ¯𝑆 + 𝛼( ¯𝑋1 − ¯𝑋2) and ¯𝑋1 < ˆ𝑋 < ¯𝑋2), so that the optimal
supplyofreservesabsentuncertaintyliesintheamplereservesregion. Specifically,inthe
absenceofuncertainty,theequationfortheoptimalsupplyofreservesisidenticaltothatin
thetwo-regionmodel(with ¯𝑋1replacing ¯𝑋). Inthepresenceofuncertainty,thefirst-order
condition for the optimal supply of reserves,𝑋∗∗∗, yields the following proposition.
48
===== PAGE 50 =====
Proposition 5 (Higher Optimal Supply of Reserves with a Scarce Reserves Region)
Theexistenceofthescarcereservesregionincreasestheoptimalsupplyofreservesunderuncertainty:
𝑋∗∗∗ = 𝑋∗∗ + 𝛽(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖2))
𝛼2 + 𝜆

¯𝑆 + 𝛼( ¯𝑋1 − ¯𝑋2) − ˆ𝑆

≥ 𝑋∗∗,
where ¯𝜖2 = ¯𝜖( ¯𝑋2).
To prove the results above, we proceed as follows. When the demand curve includes
a region of scarce reserves, the central bank’s optimization problem is given by
min
𝑋
∫ ¯𝜖1
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − ˆ𝑆)2 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖 +
∫ ¯𝜖2
¯𝜖1
∫ ∞
−∞
( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋1 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆)2 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖+
+
∫ ∞
¯𝜖2
∫ ∞
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞

¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋1 − 𝜖) − 𝛽(𝑋 − ¯𝑋2 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆
 2
𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖
+ 𝜆(𝑋 − ˆ𝑋)2.
Denote the objective function in the two-region model byℒ1, the state vector by
𝜃 = {𝜖, 𝜈}, the state space byΘ, and the joint density function by𝛾(𝜃). We further
denote the partition of the state space for𝜖 between ¯𝜖2 and ∞ (with all other variables
unrestricted) byΘ2. Then, we use that
∫ ∞
¯𝜖2
∫ ∞
−∞

¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋1 − 𝜖) − 𝛽(𝑋 − ¯𝑋2 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆
 2
𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖
=
∫ ∞
¯𝜖2
∫ ∞
−∞
( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋1 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆)2 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜈𝑑𝜖+
+
∫
𝜃∈Θ2

−2( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋1 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆)𝛽(𝑋 − ¯𝑋2 − 𝜖) + 𝛽2(𝑋 − ¯𝑋2 − 𝜖)2

𝛾(𝜃)𝑑𝜃.
49
===== PAGE 51 =====
Rearranging the terms, we obtain the objective function
ℒ1 +
∫
𝜃∈Θ2

−2( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − ˆ𝑆)𝛽(𝑋 − ¯𝑋2 − 𝜖) + 2𝛼𝛽(𝑋 − ¯𝑋1 − 𝜖)(𝑋 − ¯𝑋2 − 𝜖) + 𝛽2(𝑋 − ¯𝑋2 − 𝜖)2

𝛾(𝜃)𝑑𝜃
= ℒ1 +
∫
𝜃∈Θ2

2( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆)𝛽(𝑋 − ¯𝑋2 − 𝜖) + 2𝛼𝛽(𝑋 − ¯𝑋1 − 𝜖)(𝑋 − ¯𝑋2 − 𝜖) + 𝛽2(𝑋 − ¯𝑋2 − 𝜖)2

𝛾(𝜃)𝑑𝜃.
The first-order condition (as before, multiplied by1/2) is given by:
0 = 𝑑ℒ1
𝑑𝑋 +
∫
𝜃∈Θ2
(𝛽( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) + 2𝛼𝛽𝑋∗∗∗ − 𝛼𝛽( ¯𝑋1 + ¯𝑋2) − 2𝛼𝛽𝜖 + 𝛽2(𝑋∗∗∗ − ¯𝑋2 − 𝜖))𝛾(𝜃)𝑑𝜃
= 𝑑ℒ1
𝑑𝑋 +
∫
𝜃∈Θ2

(2𝛼𝛽 + 𝛽2)𝑋∗∗∗ + 𝛽( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) − 𝛼𝛽( ¯𝑋1 + ¯𝑋2) − (2𝛼𝛽 + 𝛽2)𝜖 − 𝛽2 ¯𝑋2

𝛾(𝜃)𝑑𝜃
= 𝑑ℒ1
𝑑𝑋 + (2𝛼𝛽 + 𝛽2)(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖2))𝑋∗∗∗
+

𝛽( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) − 𝛼𝛽( ¯𝑋1 + ¯𝑋2) − 𝛽2 ¯𝑋2

(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖2)) − (2𝛼𝛽 + 𝛽2)
∫ ∞
¯𝜖2
𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜖,
where 𝑑ℒ1
𝑑𝑋 is calculated at the optimum,𝑋∗∗∗. Using that
∫ ∞
¯𝜖2
𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)𝑑𝜖 = 𝒢( ¯𝜖2) − ¯𝜖2𝐺( ¯𝜖2)
and ¯𝜖2 = 𝑋∗∗∗ − ¯𝑋2, we get
(2𝛼𝛽 + 𝛽2)(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖2))𝑋∗∗∗ +

𝛽( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) − 𝛼𝛽( ¯𝑋1 + ¯𝑋2) − 𝛽2 ¯𝑋2

(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖2)) + (2𝛼𝛽 + 𝛽2) ( ¯𝜖2𝐺( ¯𝜖2) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖2))
= (2𝛼𝛽 + 𝛽2)(𝑋∗∗∗ − ¯𝑋2) +

𝛽( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) − 𝛼𝛽( ¯𝑋1 − ¯𝑋2)

(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖2)) − (2𝛼𝛽 + 𝛽2)𝒢( ¯𝜖2).
Taken together, we get the combined first-order condition
(𝛼2 + 𝜆)(𝑋∗∗∗ − ¯𝑋1) + 𝛼(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖1))( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) + 𝜆( ¯𝑋1 − ˆ𝑋) − 𝛼2𝒢( ¯𝜖1)+
+ (2𝛼𝛽 + 𝛽2)(𝑋∗∗∗ − ¯𝑋2) + 𝛽(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖2))( ˆ𝑆 − ¯𝑆) − 𝛼𝛽(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖2))( ¯𝑋1 − ¯𝑋2) − (2𝛼𝛽 + 𝛽2)𝒢( ¯𝜖2) = 0,
which simplifies to
𝑋∗∗∗ = 𝛼2 + 𝜆
(𝛼 + 𝛽)2) + 𝜆 𝑋∗∗+
+ 𝛽(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖2))
((𝛼 + 𝛽)2) + 𝜆 ( ¯𝑆 + 𝛼( ¯𝑋1 − ¯𝑋2) − ˆ𝑆) + 2𝛼𝛽 + 𝛽2
((𝛼 + 𝛽)2) + 𝜆 ( ¯𝑋2 + 𝒢( ¯𝜖2)),
50
===== PAGE 52 =====
where ¯𝑆 + 𝛼( ¯𝑋1 − ¯𝑋2) > ˆ𝑆 is the spread at𝑋 = ¯𝑋2 with 𝜖 = 0 and 𝜈 = 0. To show that
𝑋∗∗∗ > 𝑋∗∗, we use that𝒢( ¯𝜖2) ≥ ¯𝜖2 = 𝑋∗∗∗ − ¯𝑋2. Consequently,𝒢( ¯𝜖2) + ¯𝑋2 ≥ 𝑋∗∗∗, and thus
the last term on the right-hand side can be bounded from below:
𝑋∗∗∗ ≥ 𝛼2 + 𝜆
(𝛼 + 𝛽)2) + 𝜆 𝑋∗∗+
+ 𝛽(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖2))
(𝛼 + 𝛽)2 + 𝜆 ( ¯𝑆 + 𝛼( ¯𝑋1 − ¯𝑋2) − ˆ𝑆) + 2𝛼𝛽 + 𝛽2
(𝛼 + 𝛽)2 + 𝜆 𝑋∗∗∗.
Solving for𝑋∗∗∗ results in
𝑋∗∗∗ ≥ 𝑋∗∗ + 𝛽(1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖2))
𝛼2 + 𝜆 ( ¯𝑆 + 𝛼( ¯𝑋1 − ¯𝑋2) − ˆ𝑆).
B Proofs of Section 4 (with Lending Facility)
Inthisappendix,wereporttheproofsoftheoptimalsupplyofreservesunderuncertainty
when a central bank lending facility is present.
51
===== PAGE 53 =====
B.1 Mean spread and variance of the spread with a lending facility
TheexpectedspreadinthepresenceofthelendingfacilitydescribedinSection2.2canbe
written as follows
E [𝑆] =
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
  ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖+
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
 ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼  𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖
𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖+
∫ ∞
¯𝜖𝐿
∫ ∞
−∞
  ¯𝑆𝐿 + 𝜈 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖
= ¯𝑆𝐺( ¯𝜖) + ¯𝑆 [𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] + ¯𝑆𝐿 [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)] − 𝛼
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
¯𝜖
(𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖
= ¯𝑆 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
[1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)] − 𝛼

¯𝜖 [𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] −
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
¯𝜖
𝜖𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖

,
wherethefirstequalityholdsbecause 𝜖 and 𝜈 areindependent,thesecondequalityholds
because 𝜈 has zero mean, and the third equality uses¯𝜖 = 𝑋 − ¯𝑋 by definition. Using
integration by parts, we can write
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
¯𝜖
𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 = ¯𝜖𝐿𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)− ¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖)−
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
−∞
𝐺(𝜖)d𝜖+
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
𝐺(𝜖)d𝜖 = ¯𝜖𝐿𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)− ¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖)−[𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)]
Substituting this expression in the last term of the previous formula, we can write the
expected spread as
E [𝑆] = ¯𝑆 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
[1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)] − 𝛼 { ¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖𝐿𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) + ¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖) + [𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)]}
= ¯𝑆 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
[1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)] − 𝛼

−
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
𝛼 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) + 𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)

= ¯𝑆𝐿 − 𝛼 [𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)] ,
where the second equality follows from¯𝜖𝐿 = ¯𝜖 +
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
𝛼 .
52
===== PAGE 54 =====
From the equation above, it follows that:(𝑖) E [𝑆] ≤ ¯𝑆𝐿 for all 𝑋 because 𝒢(𝑥) is
increasing everywhere, which implies that𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖) ≥ 0 for all 𝑋; (𝑖𝑖 ) E [𝑆] ≥ ¯𝑆
for all 𝑋 because the function 𝒢(𝑥) − 𝑥 is decreasing everywhere, which implies that
𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖) ≤ ¯𝜖𝐿 − ¯𝜖; (𝑖𝑖𝑖 ) dE [𝑆]
d ¯𝑆𝐿
= 1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) ≥ 0 for all ¯𝑆𝐿 and 𝑋, which means that
E[𝑆] is increasing with ¯𝑆𝐿; (𝑖𝑣 ) dE [𝑆]
d𝑋 = −𝛼 [𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] ≤ 0 for all ¯𝑆𝐿 and 𝑋, which
means that E[𝑆] is decreasing with 𝑋; (𝑣 ) lim
𝑋→−∞
E[𝑆] = ¯𝑆𝐿 because both 𝒢 functions
go to zero as𝑋 goes to minus infinity; and(𝑣𝑖 ) lim
𝑋→∞
E[𝑆] = ¯𝑆 because lim
𝑥→∞
(𝒢(𝑥 + 𝑑) −
𝒢(𝑥)) = lim𝑥→∞
n
(𝑥 + 𝑑)𝐺(𝑥 + 𝑑) − 𝑥𝐺 (𝑥) −
∫ 𝑥+𝑑
−∞ 𝑢 𝑔(𝑢)d𝑢 +
∫ 𝑥
−∞ 𝑢 𝑔(𝑢)d𝑢
o
= 𝑑 for all 𝑥
and 𝑑, where we used integration by parts and the fact that𝜖 has zero mean (so that the
last two integrals go to zero in the limit) and finite variance (so that𝑥[𝐺(𝑥 + 𝑑) − 𝐺(𝑥)]
goes to zero in the limit). Moreover, sinceE[𝑆] is a decreasing function of𝑋, the limit for
𝑋 → −∞ is approached from below and the limit for𝑋 → ∞ is approached from above.
Since dE [𝑆]
d𝑋 = −𝛼 [𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] ≥ − 𝛼 for all ¯𝑆𝐿 and 𝑋, and since the deterministic
spread is
𝑆𝑑𝑒𝑡 =
 

¯𝑆𝐿 if 𝑋 ≤ ¯𝑋 −
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
𝛼 ,
¯𝑆 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋) if ¯𝑋 −
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
𝛼 < 𝑋 < ¯𝑋 ,
¯𝑆 if 𝑋 ≥ ¯𝑋 ,
there exists a unique level of the ex-ante supply of reservese𝑋 ∈

¯𝑋 −
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
𝛼 , ¯𝑋

such
that the expected spread is equal to the deterministic one, withE [𝑆] ≤ 𝑆𝑑𝑒𝑡 for all𝑋 < e𝑋
and E [𝑆] ≥ 𝑆𝑑𝑒𝑡 for all 𝑋 > e𝑋. If the distribution of horizontal shocks𝑔(𝜖) has infinite
support, the inequalities hold in the strict sense; obviously, if𝑔(𝜖) has finite support,
the expected spread is exactly equal to the deterministic one for sufficiently low and for
sufficiently large values of𝑋. Finally, if𝑔(𝜖) is symmetric around zero,𝐺(𝑢) + 𝐺(−𝑢) = 1
53
===== PAGE 55 =====
for all 𝑢 and therefore d
d𝑢 [𝒢(𝑢) − 𝒢(−𝑢)] = 𝐺(𝑢) + 𝐺(−𝑢) = 1 for all 𝑢; this implies
[𝒢(𝑢) − 𝒢(−𝑢)] = 𝑢 because 𝒢(0) − 𝒢(−0) = 0. As a result, E

𝑆

𝑋 = ¯𝑋 −
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
2𝛼

=
¯𝑆𝐿 − 𝛼

¯𝑋 −
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
2𝛼 − ¯𝑋 +
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
𝛼

=
¯𝑆𝐿 + ¯𝑆
2 = 𝑆𝑑𝑒𝑡

𝑋 = ¯𝑋 −
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
2𝛼

,whichprovesthatif
𝑔(𝜖)issymmetricaroundzero,theexpectedspreadintersectsthedeterministiconeatthe
midpoint between the kinks in the reserve demand curve, i.e.,¯𝑋 −
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
2𝛼 .
To derive the variance of the spread in the presence of the lending facility, we first
derive the expected value of the squared spread as follows
E 
𝑆2
=
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
  ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 2 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖 +
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞
 ¯𝑆 + 𝜈 − 𝛼  𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖 2
𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖+
∫ ∞
¯𝜖𝐿
∫ ∞
−∞
  ¯𝑆𝐿 + 𝜈 2 𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖
=
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞

¯𝑆2 + 2𝜈 ¯𝑆 + 𝜈2

𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖+
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
¯𝜖
∫ ∞
−∞

( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈)2 − 2𝛼( ¯𝑆 + 𝜈)( ¯𝜖 − 𝜖) + 𝛼2( ¯𝜖 − 𝜖)2
𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖+
∫ ∞
¯𝜖𝐿
∫ ∞
−∞

¯𝑆2
𝐿 + 2𝜈 ¯𝑆𝐿 + 𝜈2

𝑓 (𝜈)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜈d𝜖
= ¯𝑆2𝐺( ¯𝜖) + 2 ¯𝑆
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
𝜈 𝑓 (𝜈)d𝜈

𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 + 𝜎2
𝜈𝐺( ¯𝜖) + ¯𝑆2
𝐿 [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)] +
2 ¯𝑆𝐿
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
𝜈 𝑓 (𝜈)d𝜈

𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 + 𝜎2
𝜈 [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)] + ¯𝑆2 [𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] +
2 ¯𝑆
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
𝜈 𝑓 (𝜈)d𝜈

𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 + 𝜎2
𝜈 [𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] − 2𝛼 ¯𝑆
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
𝑓 (𝜈)d𝜈

( ¯𝜖 − 𝜖)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖−
2𝛼
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
𝜈 𝑓 (𝜈)d𝜈

( ¯𝜖 − 𝜖)𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 + 𝛼2
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
∫ ∞
−∞
𝑓 (𝜈)d𝜈

( ¯𝜖 − 𝜖)2 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖
=𝜎2
𝜈 + ¯𝑆2
𝐿 [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)] + ¯𝑆2𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 2𝛼 ¯𝑆

¯𝜖 [𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] −
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
¯𝜖
𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖

+
𝛼2

¯𝜖2 [𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] − 2 ¯𝜖
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
¯𝜖
𝜖 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 +
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
¯𝜖
𝜖2 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖

,
where the first equality holds because𝜖 and 𝜈 are independent, and the fourth equality
54
===== PAGE 56 =====
holds because𝜈 has zero mean.
Using integration by parts, the last integral in the equation above can be written as
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
¯𝜖
𝜖2 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 =
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
−∞
𝜖2 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 −
∫ ¯𝜖
−∞
𝜖2 𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖
=( ¯𝜖𝐿)2𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 2 ¯𝜖𝐿𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) + 2G( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖2𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) + 2 ¯𝜖𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 2G( ¯𝜖𝐿),
where G(𝑥) =
∫ 𝑥
−∞ 𝒢(𝑢)d𝑢 isthesuper-supercumulativedistributionfunction. Usingthis
expression and the expression for
∫ ¯𝜖𝐿
¯𝜖 𝜖𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 derived above, we can write
E 
𝑆2
=𝜎2
𝜈 + ¯𝑆2
𝐿 [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)] + ¯𝑆2𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)−
2𝛼 ¯𝑆 { ¯𝜖 [𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] − ¯𝜖𝐿𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) + ¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖) + 𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)} +
𝛼2 
¯𝜖2 [𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] − 2 ¯𝜖 [ ¯𝜖𝐿𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖𝐺( ¯𝜖) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) + 𝒢( ¯𝜖)] +
( ¯𝜖𝐿)2𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖2𝐺( ¯𝜖) − 2 ¯𝜖𝐿𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) + 2 ¯𝜖𝒢( ¯𝜖) + 2G( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 2G( ¯𝜖)
	
=𝜎2
𝜈 + ¯𝑆2
𝐿 [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)] + ¯𝑆2𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) + 2𝛼 ¯𝑆 {( ¯𝜖𝐿 − ¯𝜖) 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) + 𝒢( ¯𝜖)} +
𝛼2 
( ¯𝜖𝐿 − ¯𝜖)2 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 2( ¯𝜖𝐿 − ¯𝜖)𝒢( ¯𝜖) + 2 [G( ¯𝜖𝐿) − G( ¯𝜖)]
	
=𝜎2
𝜈 + ¯𝑆2
𝐿 [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)] + ¯𝑆2𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) + 2 ¯𝑆   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 2𝛼 ¯𝑆 [𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)] +
  ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 2 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 2𝛼( ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆)𝒢( ¯𝜖) + 2𝛼2 [G( ¯𝜖𝐿) − G( ¯𝜖)]
=𝜎2
𝜈 + ¯𝑆2
𝐿 − 2𝛼
 ¯𝑆𝐿𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝑆𝒢( ¯𝜖)

+ 2𝛼2 [G( ¯𝜖𝐿) − G( ¯𝜖)] ,
where the third equality uses¯𝜖𝐿 = ¯𝜖 +
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
𝛼 . Putting together this expression with the
one for the expected spread, we obtain the variance of the spread as
Var[𝑆] =E 
𝑆2
− (E [𝑆])2 = 𝜎2
𝜈 + ¯𝑆2
𝐿 − 2𝛼
 ¯𝑆𝐿𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝑆𝒢( ¯𝜖)

+ 2𝛼2 [G( ¯𝜖𝐿) − G( ¯𝜖)] −
¯𝑆2
𝐿 + 2𝛼 ¯𝑆𝐿 [𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)] − 𝛼2 [𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)]2
=𝜎2
𝜈 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 2 − 2𝛼   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝛼2 {[𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖𝐿] − [𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖]}2 + 2𝛼2 [G( ¯𝜖𝐿) − G( ¯𝜖)] .
55
===== PAGE 57 =====
To prove the limiting behavior of Var[𝑆(𝑋)] as 𝑋 goes to plus and minus infinity, we
use the following equalities, which are derived using integration by parts:
𝒢(𝑥) =
∫ 𝑥
−∞
𝐺(𝑢)d𝑢 = 𝑥𝐺(𝑥) −
∫ 𝑥
−∞
𝑢 𝑔(𝑢)d𝑢,
G(𝑥) =
∫ 𝑥
−∞
𝒢(𝑢)d𝑢 = 𝑥𝒢(𝑥) − 𝑥2
2 𝐺(𝑥) +
∫ 𝑥
−∞
𝑢2
2 𝑔(𝑢)d𝑢.
Plugging these equalities in the expression for the variance above, we obtain:
lim
𝑋→∞
Var[𝑆] =𝜎2
𝜈 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 2 +
lim
𝑋→∞
n
−2𝛼   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝛼2 {[𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖𝐿] − [𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖]}2 + 2𝛼2 [G( ¯𝜖𝐿) − G( ¯𝜖)]
o
=𝜎2
𝜈 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 2 +
lim
𝑋→∞

−2𝛼   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 ¯𝜖𝐿𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) + 2𝛼2

¯𝜖𝐿𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ( ¯𝜖𝐿)2
2 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖𝒢( ¯𝜖) + ¯𝜖2
2 𝐺( ¯𝜖)

=𝜎2
𝜈 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 2 + lim
𝑋→∞

−2𝛼   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 ¯𝜖𝐿𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) + 2𝛼2
 ( ¯𝜖𝐿)2
2 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖2
2 𝐺( ¯𝜖)

=𝜎2
𝜈 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 2 + lim
𝑋→∞

−2𝛼   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 ¯𝜖𝐿 + 𝛼2 
( ¯𝜖𝐿)2 − ¯𝜖2	
=𝜎2
𝜈 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 2 − 2   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 2 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 2 = 𝜎2
𝜈,
where we usedlim
𝑥→∞
𝐺(𝑥) = 1, the fact that𝜖 has zero mean and finite variance, and that
¯𝜖𝐿 = ¯𝜖 +
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
𝛼 . Similarly,
lim
𝑋→−∞
Var[𝑆] =𝜎2
𝜈 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 2 +
lim
𝑋→−∞
n
−2𝛼   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝛼2 {[𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖𝐿] − [𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖]}2 + 2𝛼2 [G( ¯𝜖𝐿) − G( ¯𝜖)]
o
= 𝜎2
𝜈 +   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 2 − 𝛼2 lim
𝑋→−∞
( ¯𝜖𝐿 − ¯𝜖)2 = 𝜎2
𝜈,
whereweusedtheequalitiesderivedaboveandthefactthat lim
𝑥→−∞
𝑥𝐺 (𝑥) = lim
𝑥→−∞
𝑥2𝐺(𝑥) =
56
===== PAGE 58 =====
lim
𝑥→−∞
𝑥𝒢(𝑥) = 0 because 𝜖 has finite variance.
The derivative of Var[𝑆]with respect to¯𝑆𝐿 is
dVar[𝑆]
d ¯𝑆𝐿
=2   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 − 2𝛼𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 2𝛼   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)
𝛼
− 2𝛼2 {[𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖𝐿] − [𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖]} 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 1
𝛼 + 2𝛼2 𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿)
𝛼
=2   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
[1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)] + 2𝛼 {[𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖𝐿] − [𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖]} [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)]
=2𝛼 [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿)] [𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)] ≥ 0,
where we used¯𝜖𝐿 = ¯𝜖 +
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
𝛼 , and the last inequality follows from the fact that𝒢(𝑥) is
increasing everywhere. This result proves that the variance of the spread increases with
the lending facility spread.
The derivative of Var[𝑆]with respect to𝑋 is
dVar[𝑆]
d𝑋 = − 2𝛼   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 2𝛼2 {[𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − ¯𝜖𝐿] − [𝒢( ¯𝜖) − ¯𝜖]} [𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝐺( ¯𝜖)]
+ 2𝛼2 [𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)]
= − 2𝛼   ¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆 𝐺( ¯𝜖) + 2𝛼2 [𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)] [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) + 𝐺( ¯𝜖)]
=2𝛼2

[𝒢( ¯𝜖𝐿) − 𝒢( ¯𝜖)] [1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖𝐿) + 𝐺( ¯𝜖)] −
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
𝛼 𝐺( ¯𝜖)

≷ 0,
which shows that the variance of the spread is non-monotonic with𝑋.
Toprovethatifthe 𝑔issymmetricaroundzero,Var [𝑆]isanevenfunctionof 𝑋 around
𝑋 = ¯𝑋 −
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
2𝛼 (i.e., around ¯𝜖 = −
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
2𝛼 ), we first show that its derivative with respect
to 𝑋 is an odd function. Let𝑑 ≡
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
2𝛼 , so that¯𝜖𝐿 = ¯𝜖 + 2𝑑, and𝐻( ¯𝜖) ≡ ( 2𝛼2)−1 dVar[𝑆]
d𝑋 .
57
===== PAGE 59 =====
Then, for any𝑧 > 0,
𝐻(−𝑑 + 𝑧) = [𝒢(𝑑 + 𝑧) − 𝒢(−𝑑 + 𝑧)] [1 − 𝐺(𝑑 + 𝑧) + 𝐺(−𝑑 + 𝑧)] − 2𝑑𝐺(−𝑑 + 𝑧), and
𝐻(−𝑑 − 𝑧) = [𝒢(𝑑 − 𝑧) − 𝒢(−𝑑 − 𝑧)] [1 − 𝐺(𝑑 − 𝑧) + 𝐺(−𝑑 − 𝑧)] − 2𝑑𝐺(−𝑑 − 𝑧).
Since 𝑔(𝜖)issymmetricaroundzero, 𝐺(−𝑢) = 1 − 𝐺(𝑢)andtherefore d
d𝑢 [𝒢(𝑢) − 𝒢(−𝑢)] =
𝐺(𝑢) + 𝐺(−𝑢) = 1, which implies[𝒢(𝑢) − 𝒢(−𝑢)] = 𝑢 because 𝒢(0) − 𝒢(−0) = 0. Using
these results, we can show
𝐻(−𝑑 + 𝑧) + 𝐻(−𝑑 − 𝑧) = [𝒢(𝑑 + 𝑧) − 𝒢(−𝑑 + 𝑧)] [1 − 𝐺(𝑑 + 𝑧) + 𝐺(−𝑑 + 𝑧)] − 2𝑑𝐺(−𝑑 + 𝑧)+
[𝒢(𝑑 − 𝑧) − 𝒢(−𝑑 − 𝑧)] [1 − 𝐺(𝑑 − 𝑧) + 𝐺(−𝑑 − 𝑧)] − 2𝑑𝐺(−𝑑 − 𝑧)
= [𝒢(𝑑 + 𝑧) − 𝒢(−𝑑 + 𝑧)] [𝐺(−𝑑 − 𝑧) + 𝐺(−𝑑 + 𝑧)] − 2𝑑𝐺(−𝑑 + 𝑧)+
[𝒢(𝑑 − 𝑧) − 𝒢(−𝑑 − 𝑧)] [𝐺(−𝑑 + 𝑧) + 𝐺(−𝑑 − 𝑧)] − 2𝑑𝐺(−𝑑 − 𝑧)
= [𝒢(𝑑 + 𝑧) − 𝒢(−𝑑 + 𝑧) + 𝒢(𝑑 − 𝑧) − 𝒢(−𝑑 − 𝑧)] [𝐺(−𝑑 − 𝑧) + 𝐺(−𝑑 + 𝑧)] −
2𝑑 [𝐺(−𝑑 + 𝑧) + 𝐺(−𝑑 − 𝑧)]
= [𝑑 + 𝑧 + 𝑑 − 𝑧] [𝐺(−𝑑 − 𝑧) + 𝐺(−𝑑 + 𝑧)] − 2𝑑 [𝐺(−𝑑 + 𝑧) + 𝐺(−𝑑 − 𝑧)] = 0,
which implies that𝐻( ¯𝜖)is an odd function around¯𝜖 = −𝑑. As a result,dVar[𝑆]
d𝑋 is an odd
function around ¯𝜖 = −𝑑, which implies that Var[𝑆]is an even function around¯𝜖 = −𝑑.
To prove that if𝑔 is also log-concave,¯𝜖 = −𝑑 is a local maximum of the variance, we
first observe that dVar[𝑆]
d𝑋

¯𝜖=−𝑑
= 0 because dVar[𝑆]
d𝑋 is odd around ¯𝜖 = −𝑑. Then, we
calculate the second derivative of the variance at¯𝜖 = −𝑑:
d2Var[𝑆]
d𝑋2

¯𝜖=−𝑑
=2𝛼2 {[𝐺(𝑑) − 𝐺(−𝑑)] [1 − 𝐺(𝑑) + 𝐺(−𝑑)] + [𝒢(𝑑) − 𝒢(−𝑑)] [𝑔(𝑑) − 𝑔(−𝑑)] − 2𝑑𝑔(−𝑑)}
=2𝛼2 {[2𝑑𝑔(𝑧)] [2𝐺(−𝑑)] − 2𝑑𝑔(−𝑑)} = 4𝛼2𝑑𝐺(−𝑑)
 𝑔(𝑧)
1/2 − 𝑔(−𝑑)
𝐺(−𝑑)

,
58
===== PAGE 60 =====
with 𝑧 ∈ (− 𝑑, 𝑑 );thesecondequalityusesthemeanvaluetheoremon 𝐺(𝑑)− 𝐺(−𝑑)andthe
fact that 𝑔 is symmetric around zero, which implies1 − 𝐺(𝑑) = 𝐺(−𝑑) and 𝑔(−𝑑) = 𝑔(𝑑).
Since 𝑔 is symmetric around zero and log-concave,𝑔(𝑧) < 𝑔(0) for all𝑧, 𝐺(0) = 1/2, and
the reverse hazard rate,𝑔(𝑥)
𝐺(𝑥), is decreasing. As a result,
d2Var[𝑆]
d𝑋2

¯𝜖=−𝑑
=4𝛼2𝑑𝐺(−𝑑)
 𝑔(𝑧)
1/2 − 𝑔(−𝑑)
𝐺(−𝑑)

< 4𝛼2𝑑𝐺(−𝑑)
 𝑔(0)
𝐺(0) − 𝑔(−𝑑)
𝐺(−𝑑)

< 0.
Combined with dVar[𝑆]
d𝑋

¯𝜖=−𝑑
= 0, this inequality proves that¯𝜖 = −𝑑 is a local maximum
of Var[𝑆].
B.2 Optimal policy with the lending facility
B.2.1 Exogenous lending facility spread
The loss function to minimize is
ℒ =ℒNo LF+ 1
2
∫ ∞
¯𝜖SRF

¯𝑆𝐿 − ˆ𝑆
 2
𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖 − 1
2
∫ ∞
¯𝜖SRF

¯𝑆 − 𝛼(𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖) − ˆ𝑆
 2
𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖+
𝜆𝐿
∫ ∞
¯𝜖SRF

−
¯𝑆𝐿 − ¯𝑆
𝛼 −  𝑋 − ¯𝑋 − 𝜖
𝑔(𝜖)d𝜖,
where ℒNo LFis the central bank loss function absent the lending facility (see Section 3).
The first-order condition with respect to𝑋 is
0 = 𝜕ℒNo LF
𝜕𝑋 + 𝛼

1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖SRF)

( ¯𝑆𝐿 − ˆ𝑆) − 𝜆𝐿

1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖SRF)

+ 𝛼2

𝒢( ¯𝜖SRF) − ¯𝜖SRF

,
which implies
𝜕ℒNo LF
𝜕𝑋 = −𝛼

1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖SRF)

( ¯𝑆𝐿 − ˆ𝑆) − 𝛼2

𝒢( ¯𝜖SRF) − ¯𝜖SRF

+ 𝜆𝐿

1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖SRF)

≷ 0.
59
===== PAGE 61 =====
Thatis,theoptimalsupplyinthepresenceofalendingfacilitywithexogenouslendingrate
canbeeithergreaterorsmallerthantheoptimalsupplyabsentthefacility(seeProposition
2 of the paper). Also, from the equation above, it is clear that if𝜆𝐿 is sufficiently small,
the right-hand side of the equation is negative; since the loss function is convex at the
optimum (i.e., its first derivative is an increasing function of𝑋), this implies that the
optimal supply of reserves with the facility is lower than the optimal supply with the
facility: 𝜕ℒNo LF(𝑋 𝐵∗)
𝜕𝑋 < 0 = 𝜕ℒNo LF(𝑋∗∗)
𝜕𝑋 , where 𝑋 𝐵∗ and 𝑋∗∗ are the optima with and
without facility.
B.2.2 Endogenous lending facility spread
The first-order condition with respect to¯𝑆𝐿 is
0 = ¯𝑆𝐿 − ˆ𝑆 − 𝜆𝐿
𝛼
Plugging this equation into the first-order condition for reserves, we obtain
0 = 𝜕ℒNo LF
𝜕𝑋 + 𝛼

1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖SRF)

( ¯𝑆𝐿 − ˆ𝑆) − 𝜆𝐿

1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖SRF)

+ 𝛼2

𝒢( ¯𝜖SRF) − ¯𝜖SRF

= 𝜕ℒNo LF
𝜕𝑋 + 𝛼2

𝒢( ¯𝜖SRF) − ¯𝜖SRF

;
this equation implies that if the central bank chooses the lending rate spread of its
lending facility optimally, optimal reserves are smaller than without the facility; that
is, 𝜕ℒNo LF(𝑋 𝐿∗)
𝜕𝑋 < 0 = 𝜕ℒNo LF(𝑋∗∗)
𝜕𝑋 ,where 𝑋 𝐿∗and 𝑋∗∗aretheoptimawithandwithout
facility.
60
===== PAGE 62 =====
The second-order derivatives are
𝜕2ℒ
𝜕   ¯𝑆𝐿 2 =

1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖SRF)

− 𝑔( ¯𝜖SRF)
𝛼

¯𝑆𝐿 − ˆ𝑆 − 𝜆𝐿
𝛼

,
𝜕2ℒ
𝜕   ¯𝑆𝐿 2

𝑥∗, ¯𝑆𝐿∗
=

1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖SRF)

> 0;
𝜕2ℒ
𝜕𝑋2 = 𝜕2ℒNo LF
𝜕𝑋2 − 𝑔( ¯𝜖SRF)
𝛼

¯𝑆𝐿 − ˆ𝑆 − 𝜆𝐿
𝛼

− 𝛼2

1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖SRF)

,
𝜕2ℒ
𝜕𝑋2

𝑥∗, ¯𝑆𝐿∗
= 𝜕2ℒNo LF
𝜕𝑋2

𝑥∗, ¯𝑆𝐿∗
− 𝛼2

1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖SRF)

;
𝜕2ℒ
𝜕𝑋𝜕 ¯𝑆𝐿 = − 𝑔( ¯𝜖SRF)
𝛼

¯𝑆𝐿 − ˆ𝑆 − 𝜆𝐿
𝛼

𝜕2ℒ
𝜕𝑋𝜕 ¯𝑆𝐿

𝑥∗, ¯𝑆𝐿∗
= 0.
The second-order condition is therefore simply
𝑆𝑂𝐶 (𝑋) := 𝜕2ℒ
𝜕𝑋2

𝑥∗, ¯𝑆𝐿∗
≥ 0
Fromtheseresults,wecanderivethefollowingcomparativestaticswithrespecttothe
facility-usage penalty𝜆𝐿:
𝑑 ¯𝑆𝐿
𝑑𝜆𝐿 = 1
𝛼 > 0
𝑑𝑋
𝑑𝜆𝐿 = 1 − 𝐺( ¯𝜖SRF)
𝑆𝑂𝐶 (𝑋) ≥ 0
Thatis,boththeoptimallendingfacilityrateandtheoptimalreservesupplyincreasewith
61
===== PAGE 63 =====
the penalty cost of facility usage. The intuition is simple: if the cost is higher, the central
bankwanttoincreasethefacilitylendingratetoreduceitsusage; sincethecaponmoney
marketratesisnowhigher,thecentralbankwantstoprovidemorereservestoreducerate
volatility.
C Empirical evidence
In this appendix, we show empirical evidence that motivates our model of the reserve
demand curve, using data from the United States. Panel (a) of Figure C.1 provides a
visualization of the “realized” demand for reserves in the U.S. from 2010 to June 2025.
Thefigureshowsthespreadbetweenthefederalfundsrateandtheinterestrateonreserve
balances against the level of aggregate reserves normalized by total assets in the banking
sector. Note that this figure shows equilibrium realizations over time, not the underlying
demand schedule. With that caveat in mind, for each of the different sub-periods, the
figure shows a nonlinear, downward-sloping relationship between prices and quantities
that flattens at high levels of reserves, consistent with the demand curve in equation (2).
Importantly, Panel (a) also shows that this relationship has shifted over time, both
vertically and horizontally. Vertical and horizontal shifts are captured in our model by
the shocks𝜈 and 𝜖 respectively. Vertical shifts of the demand for reserves are driven, for
instance, by changes in the costs that banks face when expanding their balance sheets
through borrowing: if these costs increase, the rate at which banks are willing to borrow
decreases,pushingthereservedemandcurvedownward(Afonsoetal.,2019). Anexample
of these balance-sheet costs is the Supplementary Leverage Ratio (SLR), which sets a
minimum requirement for the ratio of bank equity over assets (Duffie, 2018). Market
innovations that change banks’ ability to net their lending and borrowing positions, such
as the Sponsored Repo Service operated by the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, also
62
===== PAGE 64 =====
affect bank balance-sheet costs by reducing balance-sheet size (Afonso et al., 2021).
Horizontalshiftscanbeduetoregulatoryandsupervisorymeasuresthataffectbanks’
demand for reserves for every price level. Examples are the Liquidity Coverage Ratio,
which requires banks to hold enough high-quality liquid assets (including reserves) to
withstand a liquidity stress scenario for 30 days, and the liquidity requirements included
in the Resolution Plans introduced by Regulation QQ. Horizontal shifts can also be due
to changes in banks’ internal risk-management and stress-testing models.
Panel (b) of Figure C.1 shows structural time-varying estimates of the slopes of the
reservedemandcurveintheU.S.over2010–June2025fromAfonsoetal.(2025). Afonsoet
al.(2025)usetheseestimatestodetecthorizontalshiftsandidentifythedriversofvertical
shifts;theyfindthat( 𝑖)thecurveisflatforreservesaboveasatiationlevel,aspredictedby
the theory and consistent with the demand curve in equation (2); (𝑖𝑖) the satiation point
moved horizontally to the right by one percentage point of bank assets, from $1.5 trillion
ofreservesin2011to$2.2trillionin2018,consistentwithahorizontalshifttothedemand
curvecapturedbytheshock 𝜖inourmodel;( 𝑖𝑖𝑖)atemporaryregulatorychangeintheSLR
calculation shifted the curve upward by roughly 5 basis points in 2020–2021, consistent
with the evidence in Panel (a) and represented in our model by the vertical shock𝜈.21
21InApril2020,toeasestrainsintheTreasurymarketresultingfromtheCovidpandemic,U.S.regulators
announced revisions to temporarily exclude reserves (and Treasuries) from the SLR calculation, reducing
the regulatory cost of borrowing in the federal funds market. The relief expired on March 31, 2021.
63
===== PAGE 65 =====
FigureC.1: DemandforReserves. Panel(a): ThefigureistakenfromAfonsoetal.(2025)
and plots the relationship between the federal funds spread and aggregate reserves from
January2010toJune2025. Thespreadisthedifferencebetweenthedailyvolume-weighted
average federal funds rate and the interest rate on reserve balances (IORB). Reserves are
normalized relative to commercial banks’ assets. One-day windows around month-ends
are excluded to control for the window-dressing of European banks in the federal funds
market. Panel(b): Thefigureplotsthestructuraltime-varyingdailyestimatesoftheslope
of the reserve demand curve from Afonso et al. (2025).
(a) “Realized” Reserve Demand Curve
(b) Structural Time-varying Estimates of the Slope
64