
===== PAGE 1 =====
 
 
   
  
BIS Working Papers 
No 1100 
 
 Getting up from the floor  
by Claudio Borio 
 
 
 
Monetary and Economic Department 
May 2023 
   
  JEL classification: E42, E43, E52, E58. 
Keywords: monetary policy operating procedures, 
central bank balance sheets, abundant vs scarce 
reserves systems. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BIS Working Papers are written by me mbers of the Monetary and Economic 
Department of the Bank for International Settlements, and from time to time by other 
economists, and are published by the Bank. The papers ar e on subjects of topical 
interest and are technical in character. The views expressed in them are those of their 
authors and not necessarily the views of the BIS. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This publication is available on the BIS website (www.bis.org). 
 
 
© Bank for International Settlements 2023. A ll rights reserved. Brief excerpts may be 
reproduced or translated provided the source is stated. 
 
 
 
 
ISSN 1020-0959 (print) 
ISSN 1682-7678 (online) 
===== PAGE 3 =====
 
 
 1
 
Getting up from the floor1  
Claudio Borio 
Head of the BIS Monetary and Economic Department 
Abstract 
Since the Great Financial Crisis, a growin g number of central banks have adopted 
abundant reserves systems (“floors”) to set the interest rate. However, there are good 
grounds to return to scarce reserve system s (“corridors”). First, the costs of floor 
systems take considerable time to appear, are likely to grow and tend to be less 
visible. They can be attributed to independent features of the environment which, in 
fact, are to a significant extent a consequence of the systems themselves. Second, for 
much the same reasons, there is a risk of grossly overestimating the implementation 
difficulties of corridor systems, in particular the instability of the demand for reserves. 
Third, there is no need to wait for the ce ntral bank balance sheet to shrink before 
moving in that direction: for a given size, the central bank can adjust the composition 
of its liabilities. Ultimately, the design of  the implementation system should follow 
from a strategic view of the central bank’s balance sheet. A useful guiding principle is 
that its size should be as small as possible, and its composition as riskless as possible, 
in a way that is compatible with the central bank fulfilling its mandate effectively. 
Keywords: monetary policy operating proc edures, central bank balance sheets, 
abundant vs scarce reserves systems. 
JEL codes: E42, E43, E52, E58. 
  
 
1  This paper was published as SU ERF Policy Note, no 311. It is an  extended version of the keynote 
speech delivered at the workshop “Beyond unconven tional policy: Implicatio ns for central banks’ 
operational frameworks“, hosted by the Nether lands Bank in Amsterdam on 10 March 2023. I am 
very grateful to Aerdt Houben for inviting me to give that speech. I would also like to thank Morten 
Bech, Ulrich Bindseil, Stijn Claessens, Piti Disyat at, Robert McCauley, Bill Nelson, Francesco Papadia, 
Andreas Schrimpf, Masaaki Shirakawa and Nikola Ta rashev as well as workshop participants for 
comments and very valuable discussions. The views expressed are my own and not necessarily those 
of the BIS. 
===== PAGE 4 =====
 
 
2 
 
Introduction 
The Great Financial Crisis (GFC) has been a watershed for the way in which central 
banks set the short-term interest rate on a day-to-day basis. The crisis has literally 
upended these operating procedures. Is th e change desirable or should it be 
reversed? 
The question may appear inconsequential, at  least at first sight. After all, why 
should it make a big difference? All that matters, it could be argued, is at what level 
the rate is set, not how it is set. Indeed, while things have changed somewhat in recent 
years, a keen interest in operating procedures remains generally limited to central 
bankers and the market participants most directly concerned, particularly those active 
in money markets. 
This limited interest, while understanda ble, is regrettable. For operating 
procedures shed light on the great power that central banks wield, as well as on the 
source of that power and on its limits (Borio (1997)). Moreover, they also have broader 
implications for the functioning of money and even capital markets, for how monetary 
policy spreads its influence through the financial system, for central bank emergency 
interventions at times of financial stress and for the optimal size and structure of the 
central bank’s balance sheet. 
Against this backdrop, this paper assesses the post-GFC sea-change in operating 
procedures. It does so from the perspective of someone who has studied them in the 
past and sees current developments with a mix of surprise and some discomfort. My 
hope is that the analysis will make it clear that the discomfort is not just a matter of 
unjustified nostalgia. 
More specifically, the paper examines the relative merits of abundant reserves 
systems (ARS) and scarce reserves systems (SRS) in implementing interest rate policy. 
This is what has typically been referred to , somewhat inaccurately, as the relative 
merits of floor versus corridor systems. That said, the analysis will also address more 
briefly the bigger and closely related debat e over the size and composition of the 
central bank’s balance sheet.  
The key takeaway is that it is worth giving serious thought to returning to SRS – 
“getting up from the floor”, as it were.  
The first section summarises the post-GFC  sea-change. The second explains it 
might be desirable to reverse course. The third considers the broader question of the 
central bank’s balance sheet. The conclusion summarises the key messages. 
The sea-change 
The common features of pre-GFC operat ing procedures were very clear. The 
overriding objective was to make the policy stance effective while at the same time 
===== PAGE 5 =====
 
 
 3
 
leaving a minimal imprint on the financial sy stem. This gave rise to three, tightly 
related, characteristics.2 
First, there was a single operating target at the very short end of the curve, almost 
invariably an overnight rate.3 This rate, in effect, captured the overall monetary policy 
stance – in technical terms, it was a sufficient statistic for that stance.  
Second, the “decoupling principle” ruled. Signalling did the heavy lifting in 
steering the overnight target. Through sign als, the central bank would tell banks 
where it wanted the overnight rate to be. 4 In the meantime, light-touch liquidity 
management operations work ed only in the background . They would keep the 
market for bank reserves in balance an d ensured that the dem and for settlement 
balances “did not get in the way”.5 Importantly, the operations were designed not to 
disturb market prices. 6 The rest of market rates then aligned seamlessly with the 
overnight rate and expectations thereof. Of course, the central bank could pull off this 
magic signalling “trick” – often little apprec iated by non-specialists – because of its 
monopoly over the supply of banks’ settlement balances and its ability to set features 
of the demand for them, such  as the terms on reserve requirements (eg averaging 
and remuneration).  
Third, SRS were the rule and ARS very much the exception. An SRS system is here 
defined as one that ensures that the overnight rate is above the interest rate on bank 
reserves (possibly zero); and an ARS as one where that inte rest rate (or zero) is the 
binding “floor” for the overnight rate – typically implemented through a deposit 
facility.7 More precisely, in an SRS, the factor  determining the overnight rate is the 
demand for reserves for sett lement purposes (“settlement balances”), possibly 
constrained by reserve requirements with averaging provisions. By contrast, in an ARS 
reserves exceed that amount. The handful of central banks that had an ARS – in fact, 
 
2  For a detailed and systematic comparison of operating procedures at the time, see Borio (1997) and 
(2001). The procedures did not change significantly until the GF C, when adjustments started to be 
made (Borio and Nelson (2008)). Ho (2008) compares  operating procedures in selected countries in 
Asia. For a short overview of cu rrent systems, see Cap et al (2020) and the Markets Committee 
Compendium on the BIS website: www.bis.org/mc/compendium.htm.    
3  The Swiss National Bank was an exception, as it  targeted three-month Libo r, given the structural 
features of the money market. 
4  The critical importance of signalling in practical implementation is lost in standard formal models of 
operating procedures, where control of the overnight rate is portrayed as a vertical supply curve 
hitting a smooth and well behaved downwards-sloping demand curve. Compare, for instance, Borio 
(1997) and Borio and Disyatat ( 2010), Bindseil (2004) and Woodfo rd (2000) with Bech and Monnet 
(2013). In the latter class of mode ls, which have become increasing ly standard, sign alling has not 
much of a role to play and liqu idity management operations do th e bulk of the work. Borio (1997) 
also includes a detailed discussion of the role of averaging provisions and their link with signalling. 
See also Friedman and Kuttner (2010).   
5  This essentially meant offsetting the impact of autonomous factors on the supply of reserves and 
possibly smoothing out the demand for settleme nt balances themselves, through eg reserve 
requirements with averaging provisions. 
6  This definition of the “decoupling principle” is not used to refer to the possibility of adjusting the 
amount of reserves and the policy rate/operating target independently, which is a property of a floor 
system.  
7  This does not mean, though, that the overnight rate will necessarily be at the floor. In particular, it 
may be below – floors may “leak” (see below). Many central banks had no deposit facility in the past, 
with the Federal Reserve pre-GFC being a case in point. 
===== PAGE 6 =====
 
 
4 
 
only two (New Zealand and Norway), at least among advanced economies – did 
satiate the demand for settlement balances, but only marginally.  
To be sure, beneath these similarities, di fferences abounded – think of them as 
“a hundred ways to skin a cat” (Borio ( 2001)). But, looking back, the similarities 
prevailed. And those differences made hardly any difference. 
Operating procedures were simple and tidy.  
Fast-forward to today and th e sea-change is obvious, at least in several AEs. In 
many respects, the current features are the mirror image of the pre-GFC ones.  
First, central banks can no longer capture the policy stance with a single 
(overnight) operating target. Because of their large-scale asset purchases and special 
lending schemes, they have extended their direct influence well beyond the overnight 
segment. 
Second, gone is the decoupling principle. Liquidity management operations are 
an integral part of the po licy stance. And when central banks tried to rescue the 
principle as they started, or  considered starting, to unwi nd their balance sheets, it 
proved very hard. Recall how shrinking th e balance sheet was supposed to be “as 
boring as seeing paint dry”. Well, it has not been.  
Third, many central banks have adopted ARS. In several cases reserves are much 
larger than any conceivable liquidity needs. As a result, they are no lo nger just a 
payments or settlement medium but also a store of value, competing with other 
assets in terms of remuneration. 
We know the reason for the shift: the huge and unsterilised increase in central 
bank balance sheets, which was designed to ease further the policy stance at the zero, 
or effective, lower bound or to address financial stress. Large scale asset purchases – 
often termed, too loosely, quantitative ea sing (QE) – have accounted for the lion’s 
share of the increase. 8 As a result, central bank balance sheets have reached levels 
previously seen only in wartime.9 
The sea-change has gone hand in hand with another remarkable development – 
widespread market segmentation. Gone is the seamless alignment of market rates 
with the (uncollateralised) ov ernight rate: some arbitrage relationships in overnight 
and term money market segments have seemingly broken down.10  
 
8  In some cases, though, the main counterpart was increases in foreign exchange reserves – large-scale 
purchases in foreign currency-denominated assets – which are another form of balance sheet policy 
(Borio and Disyatat (2010 )). This is more common in emergi ng market economies (EMEs); among 
advanced economies, the Swiss National Bank is an example. 
9  For those countries that had adopted ARS pre-GFC, the motivations were different. In the case of 
Norway, it was the impact of huge and unpredictable autonomous factors, in the form of government 
balances with the central bank. In that of New Ze aland, the reasons were mo re “philosophical”, ie 
following Friedman’s principle that if producing money is costless, then its opportunity cost should 
be zero. See also Goodfriend (2002) for an advocate of this implementation approach.  
10  See eg Duffie and Krishnamurt hy (2016) on how dispersion ac ross money market rates due to 
segmentation hampers the pass-through efficiency of policy rate changes. See Borio et al (2016) and 
Rime et al (2022) on how the frictions in money markets spill over to FX swap markets and contribute 
to violations in covered interest parity (CIP). 
===== PAGE 7 =====
 
 
 5
 
Examples abound. Market rates may lang uish below the deposit facility rate – 
“floors may leak”. Collateralised rates may hover well below uncollateralised ones, by 
an amount that exceeds any possible difference in credit risk – a symptom of collateral 
scarcity. And some spreads that used to be stable may now be more volatile.  
Continue or reverse course? 
Where do we (or should we) go from here? In talking to central banks, the impression 
is that they are becoming used to ARS. AR S have become a kind of “New Normal”, 
linked to larger central bank balance sheets. 
There are essentially four arguments for retaining ARSs. 
Argument one: the floor system does it s job. The central bank does manage to 
control the overnight rate with the desired degree of precision, in both good and bad 
times.11 To be sure, the degree of control may not be perfect. But the rate hovers 
roughly where the central bank would like to see it and its volatility is generally low 
and acceptable. Simply put, if it ain’t broken, why fix it. 
Argument two: in the New Normal, it woul d be hard to implement an SRS. This 
is because the demand for reserves has be come less predictable. Sometimes, there 
may be tensions and spikes in the overnigh t and other closely related market rates, 
such as the repo rate. The money market ructions in September 201912 are the most 
notorious example: they showed that, despite very large reserves, there was no excess 
after all. As a result, central banks have been cautiously testing the waters as they 
unwind their balance sheets.   
Various reasons have been put forward to explain this unpredictability in the 
demand for reserves. Central banks have  broadened the set of counterparties, 
including central clearing counterparties (CCPs).
13 There is greater segmentation in 
the (secured and unsecured) interbank mark et and probably be yond. Importantly, 
new prudential liquidity requirements are now in place: settlement balances, possibly 
constrained by reserve requirements, are no  longer the only fa ctor determining the 
need for deposits with the cent ral bank. It is as if thes e deposits now have to obey 
two masters: the monetary authority and the prudential authority.    
Argument three: abundant reserves have  the additional be nefit of supporting 
financial stability. Regardless of prudential requirements, they provide banks with 
ample liquidity buffers. Moreover, if one believes that there is a scarcity of safe assets, 
then bank reserves are an additional source of supply.14 
 
11  In general, the desired degree of precision and acceptable deviations can vary, depending on the 
specifics of the system and broader aspects of the financial system. For a discussion, see Borio (1997) 
and (2001). 
12  For a more detailed analysis of this episode, s ee eg Avalos et al (2019), Afonso et al (2021) and 
Copeland et al (2022). 
13  See, for example, the case of the United Kingdom (Hauser (2019)).  
14  For an elaboration of this vi ew, see Greenwood et al (2016).  
===== PAGE 8 =====
 
 
6 
 
Argument four: regardless of the relative  merits of the system, the question of 
which system to adopt is ra ther premature. No reason to think about changing, at 
least now. In some jurisdictions, it will take a long time to reduce central bank balance 
sheets. 
No doubt, these arguments have merit. But they are not that compelling. Take 
each in turn. 
Argument one: the system has indeed “wor ked” in sense that it has yielded 
control over the overnight rate. That said, it has not come without costs.  
Directly or indirectly, these costs reflect a key factor: reserves have also become 
a store of value . In the process, the central bank has switched off the signalling 
mechanism of control: now it is liquidity management operations that do all the heavy 
lifting. Moreover, the central bank has taken over much of the intermediation in the 
overnight interbank market. As a result, many of the unwelcome features of the 
financial landscape that we may be tempted to treat as exogenous may well be, to a 
significant extent, endogenous, ie the consequence of the ARS system itself. 
Three types of cost are worth highlighting. 
One is that the ARS kills the overnight interbank market (Graph 1). And the 
damage can easily extend beyond the over night tenor: if banks expect to have 
sufficient liquidity also in the future, it is not obvious why they should trade with each 
other for funding purposes beyond the overnight segment either.15,16 The damage is 
long-lasting.17 If you don’t use a muscle, it atrophies. Desks are dismantled. 
Institutional memory withers. In the meantime, not just the total amount of reserves, 
but their distribution begins to matter.  
The consequences are material. For one, this raises the likelihood of tensions 
when reserves need to circulate freely, as  we saw in the US markets in September 
2019. As a result, it will requir e the central bank to increase  its injections of liquidity 
to calm markets at times of stress, ultimately magnifying moral hazard.18 In addition, 
there is a risk of a ratchet effect: the longer the ARS stay s in place, the greater the 
demand for reserves can become. 19 Variants of such concerns have led the Central 
 
15  Potter (2016), for instance, argues that the function of the overnight segment is simply to redistribute 
reserves linked to arbitrary payment patterns. As such, it does not perform a useful economic function 
and, on top, it absorbs capital by increasing the size of banks’ balance sheets as they borrow and 
lend to each other.      
16  Killing the overnight market has also raised cha llenges for the shift to new benchmark rates following 
the Libor scandal, as these rates require active trading (Schrimpf and Sushko (2019)). One more 
specific implication is the pressure to have a be nchmark rate determined in a market in which non-
banks also participate. This, in turn, may indirectly be one reason for extending access to the central 
bank balance sheet to them. See also below.     
17  On this, see also the report by the Markets Committee (2019).  
18  In this context, Selgin (2019), for instance, st resses the importance of interbank monitoring as a 
disciplining factor; Furfine (2001) provides evid ence based on the (uncollateralised) overnight 
segment. See also Cœuré (2013). 
19  See, for instance, Nelson (2022) and,  for a reference to this possibility, Åberg et al (2021). In a similar 
vein, Acharya et al (2022) argue that large ex cess reserves induce banks to create commitments on 
them: the supply of liquidity generates its own demand. 
===== PAGE 9 =====
 
 
 7
 
Bank of Norway and the Swiss National Bank to take half a step back and adopt tiered 
floor systems and absorb reserves.20    
A second, closely related, cost is th e distortions that the ARS system can 
introduce in markets. It can contribute to collateral scarcity: after all, only banks can 
use reserves. Collateral scarcity has been an issue in the euro area.21 Moreover, it can 
contribute to price anomalies, such as leak ing floors. As the overnight rate hits the 
floor, the impact of segmentation due to institution-specific features increases. Given 
no or little trading among banks, new players become the marginal ones, de facto 
setting the interest rate. Think, for instance, of those institutions in the United States 
that have access to central bank deposits but are not eligible for interest on them.  
But the issue is more general. Once reserves become a store of value, they 
can trigger pervasive, possibly unpredictab le waves across relative yields in the 
financial system. The reason is that the amount exogenously set by the central 
bank must be willingly held at the exogenously set interest rate. 22 As the excess 
increases, to the extent that banks find reserves costly – eg because they crowd 
 
20  In these systems, reserves are remunerated only up to a pre-determined amount and the central bank 
keeps the supply of reserves close to that point. This induces a certain amount of interbank trading, 
whenever some banks are beyond the threshold and others below it. On Norway, see Central Bank 
of Norway (2021); on Switzerland, see Maechler and Moser (2022).   
21  For a discussion of these issues, see eg Arrata et al (2020), Schaffner et al (2019). 
22  Indeed, these are precisely the ty pes of effect discussed in Tobin and Brainard (1969), where an open 
market operation exchanges a government debt for a zero-yielding monetary base.    
Excess liquidity and the decline in interbank money market activity Graph 1
Federal Reserve  Eurosystem 
USD bn USD bn  EUR bn EUR bn 
 
 
 
The vertical line in the left-hand panel indicates the start of reserve remuneration by the Federal Reserve, which marked the switch to a floor
system. The market for the effective federal funds rate includes participants that are not eligible to receive interest on rese rves. The vertical 
line in the right-hand panel corresponds to when EONIA converged to the deposit facility rate, when excess reserves rose as a r esult of the
Eurosystem’s Public Sector Purchase Programme (PSPP).  
Sources: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; Bloomberg; BIS. 
3,400
2,550
1,700
850
0
340
255
170
85
0
2321191715131109070503
Excess reservesLhs:
Unsecured interbank volume (EFFR)Rhs:
4,000
3,200
2,400
1,600
800
0
200
160
120
80
40
0
2321191715131109070503
Excess reservesLhs:
Unsecured interbank volume (EONIA)
Secured volume for funding purposes (GC pooling)
Rhs:
===== PAGE 10 =====
 
 
8 
 
out more profitable investments, such as by consuming capital – attempts to get 
rid of them will put downward pressure on other yields. 
Depending on country-specific features, the downward pressure could reach 
uncomfortable levels, possibly to the point of calling for further adjustments to 
the framework. This is especially the ca se at times when banks are reluctant to 
grow their balance sheet – its “price” is high. Non-banks would look for alternative 
investment opportunities, most likely pu shing down the rates on the closest 
substitutes, such as reverse repo rates. 23 In addition to the critical role of more 
structural factors,24 this may help explain the sharp downward spikes on repo 
rates in the euro area at quarter ends and the utilisation of the new reverse repo 
facility in the United States – a kind of safety valve.25   
One can look at it another way. In an SRS, where the demand for reserves is 
purely for settlement purposes, and signalling does the heavy lifting, the impact 
of the implementation framework is limited to the corresponding overnight rate. 
The decoupling principle reigns. In an ARS, the impact cannot be contained in the 
same way. Paraphrasing Jeremy Stein, excess liquidity gets in all the cracks (Stein 
(2013)).  
A third type of cost is of a more political economy nature. It is the perception 
that the central bank “subsidises” banks.26 The central bank can then become an 
easy target for criticism, as is already the case, especially if banks are reluctant to 
offer more attractive rates to depositors. After all, why should they if they have 
plenty of liquidity, so that they are less pressed for funds, and if their capital, and 
hence lending capacity, is absorbed by an unwanted item on their balance sheet? 
This subsidy question is part of a broader concern with central bank financial 
results. 
Argument two: it is hard to imagine that, because of instability in the demand 
for reserves, an SRS would be more difficu lt to operate than in the past – or, 
perhaps one should say, not as easy. The overwhelming majority of central banks 
around the world are still operating such a system and without difficulties. This is 
so even when they have large balance sheets, mainly reflecting holdings of 
foreign exchange reserves, as in many EM Es. And, of course, they are operating 
the systems following the implementation of the new Basel III prudential 
requirements. Some of the concerns may si mply reflect the loss of institutional 
 
23  On this, see also Markets Committee (2019). 
24  A pervasive structural factor has been changes in prudential regulation and supervision, 
internationally and domestically. For a detailed analysis of th e US experience, see eg Potter (2017), 
who also explains the rationale for the introduction of the facility in those terms. For a cross-country 
perspective, see CGFS (2015).  
25  A reverse repo facility, if unlimited, would also have  broader implications for financial stability, as it 
makes it easier for runs on banks to take place at times of stress. The risk can be mitigated by 
including some caps. See eg the discussion in Green wood et al (2016), althou gh there it is couched 
in terms of the choice between commercial paper and RRPs.  
26  De Grauwe and Yi (2023), for instance, stress this po int. Tucker (2022) provides a systematic analysis 
of the link between monetary policy operating procedures and public finances.  
===== PAGE 11 =====
 
 
 9
 
memory within central banks. One can he ar echoes of the so-called “fear of 
floating” regarding exchange rates (Calvo and Reinhart (2002)). 
Why should operating an SRS not be so complicated? Because, arguably, the 
instability in the demand for bank reserves is to an important extent endogenous 
to the ARS itself . The previous analysis already identified two specific reasons: 
obstacles to the smooth redistribution of reserves and the risk of a ratchet effect. 
But there is a more general one: the store of value function makes the demand 
for reserves sensitive to relative return s, not least those of other short-term 
instruments such as government debt and repos.  
As an illustration, consider the case of Basel III’s Liquidity Coverage Ratio 
(LCR). In the ratio, government paper and reserves are perfect substitutes for 
regulatory purposes: banks can fulfil the requirement with either, without 
constraints. As a result, the demand for reserves becomes very sensitive to the 
spread. This would not be the case in an SRS, in which the central bank would 
steer market overnight rates to be we ll above the deposit facility rate. The 
opportunity cost of holding reserves would be too high and the demand for 
settlement balances would again be the on ly relevant factor in driving their 
demand at the margin.
27 Given the more attractive pricing, banks would fulfil the 
requirement as far as possible with government securities. In effect, we would be 
back in the pre-GFC world.28 
Put differently, the sources of uncerta inty in implementing an ARS and an 
SRS differ. In an SRS, it is uncertainty about the demand for settlement balances. 
Because that demand is not interest-ela stic, effort is expended to forecast 
autonomous factors and make them more predictable, and to put in place 
mechanisms that can limit the volatility  of the overnight rate (eg reserve 
requirements with averaging provisions). In an ARS, the uncertainty relates largely 
to the demand for reserves as a store of value and hence its impact on the overall 
constellation of relative yields. But, in addition, the uncertainty about settlement 
needs is not eliminated and lurks in the background. It can appear with a 
 
27  To be clear: banks will not be fully indifferent between the two, since settlement balances are superior 
to short-term paper for liquidity purposes, not least owing to settlement lags and possibly valuation 
effects, at least if one considers longer-dated securities (Schnabel (2023). The point is that they would 
not have an incentive to minimise those holdings . See also Filardo (2020). The substantive point is 
that the additional demand, which will depend on potential cash outflows, will not be interest-elastic. 
See Bech and Keister (2012) for a model that inco rporates these additional  considerations in a 
standard analytical framework. 
28  The term “settlement balances” here includes also any precautionary balances held for prudential 
regulatory purposes. Some supervisors may still prefer that banks retain a minimum of reserves, as 
seems to be the case, for instance, in the United States. If so, and if the amounts held for reserve 
requirements (with averaging provisions) did not qu alify, there could still be a supervisory-induced 
demand for reserves. That said, this demand would be interest-inelastic, and central banks should be 
able to estimate it rather easily, including by simply asking. 
===== PAGE 12 =====
 
 
10 
 
vengeance as the central bank seeks to withdraw the excess or tensions in the 
financial system arise. In turn, this can magnify those tensions.29 
Argument three: it is far from obvious that a glut of bank reserves is good for 
financial stability. After all, short-term  government paper and reserves are 
reasonably good, although by no means  perfect, substitutes, for liquidity 
purposes.30 Accordingly, even those who believe that a shortage of safe assets 
has been a key reason for financial instability would argue that it would be better 
for the central bank to issue its own pape r or do reverse repos: the instruments 
could be made available to all. 31 In addition, as noted above, the atrophy of 
monitoring and trading muscles may ac tually require the central bank to 
intervene more, rather than less,  intensely at times of stress. 32 And more 
generally, historically, it has not been a la ck of liquidity, but capital erosion, that 
has lurked at the core of banking crises.33         
Argument four: it is not necessary to wait for the central bank balance sheet 
to shrink before moving towards an SRS. There is no one-to-one mapping 
between the size of the central bank’s balance sheet and the composition of its 
liabilities. Just look at those EME central banks with huge FX reserves. In fact, size 
and composition can be largely decoupled.  There are many tools to shrink the 
reserves for a given balance sheet size, such as through central bank paper or 
time deposits, reverse repos or FX swaps. Each has its pros and cons, depending 
on the institutional context. But some of them have an additional merit: they 
increase the supply of collateral – the “n ew money” in toda y’s collateral-based 
financial system.   
Of course, while the absorption of rese rves may be gradual to start with, at 
some point the shift to an SRS will have to take place overnight, in a kind of big 
bang. The two systems do not lie along a continuum: the demand for reserves is 
not a smoothly downwards-sloping one, given the nature of settlement balances. 
You either target the overnight rate by signalling (SRS) or you satiate the banks 
with liquidity (ARS). There is no middle ground.  
 
29  These points are relevant when considering the argument that an SRS is operationally more 
burdensome, with reference to the need to forecast autonomous factors and carry out fine-tuning 
operations (eg Potter (2017), Schnabel (2023)). This argument is le ss compelling to the extent that 
the broader, general equilibrium complications and side effects of an ARS materialise and are 
considered. 
30  See Lopez-Salido and Vissing Jorg ensen (2023) for a specific perspective on the demand for reserves 
that accounts for a convenience yield of reserves due to banks’ liquidity preferences. See also Afonso, 
Giannone, La Spada and Williams (2022) for an econometric estima tion of the demand for bank 
reserves that allows for time variation in the relationship. 
31  For an in-depth discus sion of these issues and a proposal, see Greenwood et  al (2016). In fact, if 
additional reserves are produced by buying a short-term security, given that reserves are only 
available to banks, from this specific perspective, the operation would not be helpful. 
32  That said, one effect of ARS is to avoid the need for the central bank to lend – expand its balance 
sheet intra-day – to oil the financ ial system, especially given the tendency to throttle and delay 
payments. This reduces operational risk. See Bech et al (2019) and Afonso, Duffie, Rigon and Shin 
(2022). 
33  For a review of some of th ese issues, see eg Borio (2011). 
===== PAGE 13 =====
 
 
 11
 
How could a smooth transition back to an SRS system be engineered? The 
central bank would need to put in place safeguards to avoid spikes and 
undesirable volatility in the overnight rate. It could announce in advance the day 
and time of the shift. It could then set relatively tight bands around the target 
overnight rate through standing facilities (eg, a repo and reverse repo one) and 
absorb the excess reserves. Over time, the bands could then be widened, as 
familiarity grows with the features of the demand for settlement balances and 
with the system.
34 
The central bank balance sheet 
Let’s now widen the focus and consider a bigger issue – the central bank balance 
sheet.  
One concern is that the wish  to keep an ARS ends up dictating the size of the 
central bank’s balance sheet. The argument  could go as follo ws. The ARS system 
requires the monetary authority to satiate the deman d for bank reserves. At the 
standing deposit facility rate, that demand could be large and unpredictable. As a 
result, the balance sheet must have a minimum size that is considerably larger than 
in the past.  
This, however, would be the tail wagging the dog. The operating system should 
be the outcome of a strategic view r egarding the balance sheet’s size and 
composition. And that view should include risk management as a key consideration. 
Size and composition should be derived from broad principles. A useful starting 
point is that the balance sheet should be as small as possible, and its composition as 
riskless as possible, but no more. “No more” here means that the central bank should 
be able to perform its mandate effectively. In other words, the central bank should 
aim for a “lean” balance sheet.
35  
Country-specific differences aside, three functions are part of a central bank’s 
core mandate – functions that will constrain the balance sheet size and dictate its 
composition: underpinning the payments system; implementing monetary policy, 
including aspects linked to the exchange ra te (making the stance operational); and 
crisis management, including acting as lender or market-maker of last resort. Except 
perhaps for foreign exchange reserve consi derations, none requires a large balance 
sheet in normal conditions. 
There are three benefits of having a lean balance sheet.  
 
34  Another possible intermediate st ep that might provide further comfort would be to shift temporarily 
to a tiered system. That said, given the facilities that set the boundaries to the corridor, this is not 
necessary. Importantly, high-frequency volatility in the overnight rate need not be an issue as long 
as the central bank’s signal concerning the desired interest rate is effective, as banks and other market 
participants would tend to see through it. Centra l banks have displayed very different degrees of 
tolerance for this volatility; see Borio (1997) for a more detailed discussion of these issues.   
35  For a similar view, see Bindseil (2016). 
===== PAGE 14 =====
 
 
12 
 
One is to limit the central bank’s footprint in the financial system and economy 
at large. This would reduce its involvement in resource allocation and also the risk of 
inhibiting market functioning. 36 A small footprint would support a smoothly 
functioning economy while at the same time  reducing the risk of political economy 
pressures, especially those that can easily arise if the central bank gets too involved 
in resource allocation.    
A second, closely related, benefit is to limit the side effects of the link with the 
government’s balance sheet.  
Some of these side effects are of an economic nature. The key one is the impact 
on the fiscal position through central bank  remittances. Large-scale asset purchases 
financed with bank reserves greatly heighten the sensitivity of the fiscal position to 
higher interest rates. From the perspectiv e of the consolidated state sector balance 
sheet – government plus central bank – they amount to a la rge debt management 
operation. Long-term government debt is retired and replaced with debt indexed to 
the overnight rate, ie bank reserves. Back-of-the-envelope calculations suggest that, 
for the central banks that have used such purchases more actively, some 30–50% of 
long-term debt is, de facto, overnight.
37 This will show up as lower central bank 
remittances to the government and hence lower government revenues. And central 
bank losses will not just mean a weaker fi scal position, but they could also raise 
reputational and institutional challenges for central banks.  
Other side effects are of a political economy one.
38 While central banks’ 
performance should be judged exclusively on how effectively they fulfil their 
mandates and not on their financial results, there is a strong temptation to focus on 
those results (Carstens (2023)). Especially when they make losses, central banks can 
come under heavy criticism, with risks to their reputation, independence and, 
ultimately, legitimacy. A small and risk -proofed balance sheet mitigates those 
concerns and increases the central bank’s room for policy manoeuvre. Such a balance 
sheet is what avoids blurring the line between monetary and fiscal policy – a form of 
institutional hygiene.  
In this context, there may be a risk of underestimating the side effect of a step 
as apparently innocuous as paying interest  on bank (excess) reserves, which opens 
the door to an ARS. Doing so raises the po litical incentive to take advantage of the 
newly found “captive” investor base, thereb y potentially relaxing the government’s 
financing constraint. Banks represent a form of “captive” demand because they must 
accept the amount of reserv es the central bank injects into the system through its 
open market operations. With any other inst rument that drains reserves, the pricing 
has to be sufficiently attractive for market participants to be willing to lend to the 
central bank in the first place, which rais es the funding cost and difficulties involved 
 
36  To be sure, spurring market development – an important consideration is some cases – can 
encourage size up to a point. But its main impact is on the composition of the balance sheet. Spurring 
market development is a common consideration in  many EMEs. For a historical example involving 
the Federal Reserve and the market for letters of credit to encourage the role of the US dollar in 
trade, see Eichengreen and Flandreau (2010).   
37  See Borio and Disyatat (2021) for a discussion of th is point in the broader context of the relationship 
between monetary and fiscal policies.  
38  For a recent elaboration on th is issue, see Bell et al (2023). 
===== PAGE 15 =====
 
 
 13
 
(eg failed auctions etc). 39 All this puts a premium on institutional safeguards that 
protect central bank independence.        
A third, often underestimated, benefit of a lean balance sheet is that it maximises 
the central bank’s ability to expand it when the need does arise . Given the costs of 
large and risky balance sheets, the initial si ze is a hindrance, not an advantage. The 
balance sheet must be elastic, not large. 
Conclusion 
This paper has argued that there are good reasons to return to an SRS.  
There is a risk of underestimating the costs of ARS or floor systems. The costs 
take a considerable time to appear, are likely to grow and tend to be less visible. They 
can be attributed to exogenous features of the environment when, in fact, those 
features are to a significant extent endogenous – a consequence of the system itself. 
There is equally a risk of grossly overes timating the implementation difficulties 
of an SRS. That perception, too, depe nds to a considerable extent on some 
problematic features of the environment that would disappear once an SRS is put in 
place – the instability in the demand for reserves being the key one. Not surprisingly, 
the overwhelming majority of central ba nks around the world are operating such 
systems, even those with large balance sheets.   
There is no need to wait for the centra l bank balance sheet to shrink before 
moving in that direction. For a given size, the central bank can adjust the composition 
of its liabilities. 
Ultimately, the design of monetary poli cy operating procedures should follow 
from a strategic view of the right size and composition of the central bank’s balance 
sheet. The principle proposed here is that the size should be as small as possible, and 
its composition as riskless as possibl e, but no more. “No more” here means 
“consistent with the central bank fulfilling its mandate effectively”. This would limit 
the economic and political economy costs of large and risky balance sheets and, by 
so doing, also maximise the balance sheet’s capacity to expand at times of need. That 
is, it would maximise the balance sheet’s elasticity, which is key. 
To be sure, the analysis has deliberately highlighted a specific perspective and 
glossed over qualifications and country-specific factors. These will of course influence 
the final cost/benefit analysis. But while there may be “a hundred ways to skin a cat”, 
some of those ways may be better than others.  
  
 
39  On this, see also Plosser (2018) and Selgin (2019).  
===== PAGE 16 =====
 
 
14 
 
References 
Åberg, P, M Corsi, V Grossmann-Wirth,  T Hudepohl, Y Mudde,  T Rosolin and F 
Schobert (2021): “Demand for central bank reserves and monetary policy 
implementation frameworks: th e case of the Eurosystem”, ECB Occasional Paper 
Series, no 282, September. 
Acharya, V, R Chauhan, R Rajan and S St effen (2022): “Liquidity dependence: why 
shrinking central bank balance sheets is an uphill task”, proceedings of the Jackson 
Hole Economic Symposium of the Federal Reserve Ba nk of Kansas City on 
“Reassessing Constraints on the Economy and Policy”, August.  
Afonso, G, M Cipriani, A Copeland, A Kovner, G La Spada, G and A Martin (2021): “The 
market events of mid-September 2019,  Federal Reserve Bank of New York,  Staff 
Reports, no 918. 
Afonso, G, D Duffie, L Rigon and H S Sh in (2022): “How abundant are reserves? 
Evidence from the wholesale payment system”, BIS Working Papers , no 1053, 
December. 
Afonso, G, D Giannone, G La Spada and J Williams (2022): “Scarce, abundant, or 
ample? A time-varying model of the reserve demand curve”, Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, Staff Reports, no 1019. 
Arrata, W, B Nguyen, I Rahmouni-Rousseau and M Vari (2020): “The scarcity effect 
of QE on repo rates: evidence from the euro area”, Journal of Financial 
Economics, vol 137, no 3, pp 837–56. 
Avalos, F, T Ehlers and E Egemen (2019): “September stress in dollar repo markets: 
passing or structural?”, BIS Quarterly Review, December. 
Bech, M and T Keister (2012): “On the liquidity coverage ratio and monetary policy 
implementation”, BIS Quarterly Review, December, pp 49–61.  
Bech, M, A Martin and J McAndrews ( 2019): “Settlement liquidity and monetary 
policy implementation – Lessons from th e financial crisis”, Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, Economic Policy Review, pp 1–25.  
Bech, M and C Monnet (2013): “The impact  of unconventional monetary policy 
on the overnight interbank market”, in A Heath, M Lilley and M Manning (eds), 
Liquidity and funding markets, proceedings of the 2013 Reserve Bank of Australia 
Conference. 
Bell, S, M Chui, T Gomes, P Moser-Boeh m and A Tejada (2023): “Why are central 
banks reporting losses? Does it matter?”, BIS Bulletin, no 68, February. 
Bindseil, U (2004): Monetary policy implementation, Oxford University Press. 
——— (2016): ”Evaluating monetary policy operational frameworks”, proceedings 
of the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
City on “Designing resilient monetary policy frameworks for the future”, August. 
Borio, C (1997): “The implementation of monetary policy in industrial countries: a 
survey”, BIS Economic Papers, no 47, July. 
===== PAGE 17 =====
 
 
 15
 
——— (2001): “A hundred ways to skin a cat: comparing monetary policy 
operating procedures in the United States, Japan and the euro area”, BIS Papers, 
no 9, December, pp 1–22. 
——— (2011): “Rediscovering the macroec onomic roots of financial stability 
policy: journey, challenges and a way forward”, Annual Review of Financial 
Economics, vol 3, December, pp 87–117. Also available as BIS Working Papers, no 
355, October. 
Borio, C and P Disyatat (2010): “Unconventional monetary policies: an appraisal”, 
The Manchester School, vol 78, s1. Also available as BIS Working Papers, no 292, 
November 2009. 
——— (2021): “Monetary and fiscal policies: In search of a corridor of stability”, 
VoxEU, 10 November. 
Borio, C and B Nelson (2008): “Monetary operations and the financial turmoil”; 
BIS Quarterly Review, March, pp 31-46.  
Borio, C, R McCauley, P McGuire and V Sushko (2016): “Covered interest parity 
lost: understanding the cross-currency basis”, BIS Quarterly Review , September, 
pp 45-64.   
Calvo, G and C Reinhart ( 2002): “Fear of floating”, The Quarterly Journal of 
Economics, vol 117, no 2, pp 379–408. 
Cap, A, M Drehmann and A Schrimpf (2020): “Changes in monetary policy 
operating procedures over the last decade: insights from a new database”, BIS 
Quarterly Review, December, pp 27–39. 
Carstens, A (2023): “Central banks are not here to make profits”, op-ed, Financial 
Times, 7 February. 
Central Bank of Norway (2021): “Norges B ank’s liquidity policy: principles and 
design”, Norges Bank Papers, no 21. 
Cœuré, B (2013): “Where to exit to? Monetary policy implementation after the 
crisis”, speech at the 15th Geneva Conference on the World Economy: “Exit 
strategies: time to think about them”, Geneva, 3 May. 
Committee of the Global Financial System (CGFS) (2015): “Regulatory change and 
monetary policy”, CGFS Papers, no 54, May.  
Copeland, A, J Duffie and Y Yang (2022): “Reserves were not so ample after all”, 
Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Papers, no 4185217.  
De Grauwe, P and Y Ji (2023): “Monetary po licies with fewer subsidies for banks: 
A two-tier system of minimum reserve requirements”, VoxEU, 23 March. 
Duffie, D and A Krishnamurthy (2016): “Pass- through efficiency in the Fed’s new 
monetary policy setting”, proceedings of the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City on “Designing resilient monetary 
policy frameworks for the future”, September. 
Du, W (2022): “Bank balance sheet constraints at the center of liquidity problems”, 
remarks at the Jackson Hole Economic Symposiu m of the Federal Reserve Bank 
===== PAGE 18 =====
 
 
16 
 
of Kansas City on “Designing resilient monetary policy frameworks for the future”, 
August.  
Eichengreen, B and M Flandreau (2010): “T he Federal Reserve, the Bank of 
England and the rise of the dollar as an international currency, 1914–39”, BIS 
Working Papers, no 328.  
Filardo, A (2020): “Monetary policy operating frameworks: are reforms heading in 
the right direction?”, Cato Journal, vol 40, no 2, Spring/Summer, pp 385–407.  
Friedman, B and K Kuttner (2010): “How do central banks set interest rates?”, in B 
Friedman and M Woodford (eds), Handbook of Monetary Economics , vol 3, 
Elsevier, pp 1345–438. 
Furfine, C (2001) “Banks as monitors of other banks: evidence from the overnight 
federal funds market”, Journal of Business, vol 74, no 1, pp 33–5. 
Goodfriend, M (2002): ““Interest on reserves and monetary policy”,  Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, Economic Policy Review, May, pp 1–8.  
Greenwood, R, S Hanson and J Stein (2016): “The Federal Reserve’s balance sheet 
and financial stability”, proceedings of the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City on “Designing resilient monetary policy 
frameworks for the future”, August. 
Hauser, A (2019): “Waiting for the exit: QT and the Bank of England’s long-term 
balance sheet”, speech at the Euro pean Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, London, 17 July. 
Ho, C (2008): “Implementing monetary policy in the 2000s: operating procedures 
in Asia and beyond”, BIS Working Papers, no 253. 
Lopez-Salido, D and A Vissing-Jorgensen (2023): “Reserve demand, interest rate 
control, and quantitative tightening”, working paper available on SSRN. 
Maechler, A and T Moser (2022): “Return to positive interest rates: why reserve 
tiering?”, Money Market Event, 17 November.  
Markets Committee (2019): Large central bank balance sheets and market 
functioning, report prepared by a study grou p chaired by Lorie Logan (Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York) and Ulrich Bindseil (European Central Bank) October. 
Nelson, B (2022): “The Fed is stuck on the floor: here’s how it can get up”, Bank 
Policy Institute, 11 January. 
Potter, S (2016): Discussion of U Bindseil “Evaluating monetary policy operational 
frameworks”, proceedings of the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City on  “Designing resilient monetary policy 
frameworks for the future”, August. 
——— (2017): “Money markets at a crossroads: policy implementation at a time 
of structural change”, remarks at the Master of Applied Economics Distinguished 
Speaker Series, University of California, Los Angeles, Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York. 
===== PAGE 19 =====
 
 
 17
 
Plosser, C (2018): “The risks of a Fed ba lance sheet unconstrained by monetary 
policy”, in M Bordo, J Cochrane and A Seru (eds), The Structural Foundations of 
Monetary Policy, Stanford: Hoover Institution Press, pp 1–10. 
Rime, D, A Schrimpf and O Syrstad (2022): “Covered interest parity arbitrage”, The 
Review of Financial Studies, vol 35, no 11, November. 
Selgin, G (2019): “The Fed’s new operating framework: how we got here and why 
we shouldn’t stay”, Cato Journal vol 39, no 2, pp 317–26. 
Schaffner, P, A Ranaldo and K Tsatsaronis (2019): “Euro repo market functioning: 
collateral is king”, BIS Quarterly Review, December. 
Schnabel, I (2023): “Back to normal? Balance sheet size and interest rate control”, 
speech at an event organised by Columbia University and SGH Macro Advisor, 
New York, 27 March. 
Schrimpf, A and V Sushko (2019): “Beyond Libor: a primer on the new reference 
rates”, BIS Quarterly Review, March, pp 29–52. 
Stein, J (2013): “Overheating in credit markets: origins, measurement, and policy 
responses”, speech at the research symposium Restoring household financial 
stability after the Great Recession: why household balance sheets matter , Federal 
Reserve Bank of St Louis.  
Tobin, J and W Brainard (1969): “Pitfalls in financial model building”, American 
Economic Review, vol 58, May, pp 99–122.  
Tucker, P (2022): “Quantitative easing, monetary policy implementation and the 
public finances”, IFS Report, no R223. 
Woodford, M (2000): “Monetary policy in a world without money”, International 
Finance, vol 3, pp 229–60.
 
===== PAGE 20 =====
 
 
 
Previous volumes in this series 
1099 
May 2023 
Who holds sovereign debt and why it matters Xiang Fang, Bryan Hardy and Karen 
K Lewis 
1098 
May 2023 
Long term debt propagation and real 
reversals 
Mathias Drehmann, Mikael Juselius 
and Anton Korinek 
1097 
May 2023 
Dampening global financial shocks: can 
macroprudential regulation help (more than 
capital controls)? 
Katharina Bergant, Francesco 
Grigoli, Niels-Jakob Hansen and 
Damiano Sandri 
1096 
May 2023 
Money Market Funds and the Pricing of 
Near-Money Assets 
Sebastian Doerr, Egemen Eren and 
Semyon Malamud 
1095 
April 2023 
Sectoral shocks, reallocation, and labor 
market policies 
Joaquín García-Cabo, Anna Lipińska 
and Gastón Navarro 
1094 
April 2023 
The foreign exchange market Alai n Chaboud, Dagfinn Rime and 
Vladyslav Sushko 
1093 
April 2023 
Sovereign risk and bank lending: evidence 
from the 1999 Turkish earthquake 
Yusuf Soner Baṣkaya, Bryan Hardy, 
Ṣebnem Kalemli-Özcan and Vivian 
Yue 
1092 
April 2023 
Mobile Payments and Interoperability: 
insights from the academic literature 
Milo Bianchi, Matthieu Bouvard, 
Renato Gomes, Andrew Rhodes 
and Vatsala Shreeti 
1091 
April 2023 
FinTech, investor sophistication and financial 
portfolio choices 
Leonardo Gambacorta, Romina 
Gambacorta and Roxana Mihet 
1090 
April 2023 
Tackling the fiscal policy-financial stability 
nexus 
Claudio Borio, Marc Farag and 
Fabrizio Zampolli 
1089 
April 2023 
Intraday liquidity around the world Biliana Alexandrova Kabadjova, 
Anton Badev, Saulo Benchimol 
Bastos, Evangelos Benos, Freddy 
Cepeda-Lopéz, James Chapman, 
Martin Diehl, Ioana Duca-Radu, 
Rodney Garratt, Ronald Heijmans, 
Anneke Kosse, Antoine Martin, 
Thomas Nellen, Thomas Nilsson, Jan 
Paulick, Andrei Pustelnikov, 
Francisco Rivadeneyra, Mario Rubem 
do Coutto Bastos and Sara Testi 
1088 
April 2023 
Big techs and the credit channel of  
monetary policy 
Fiorella De Fiore, Leonardo 
Gambacorta and Cristina Manea 
All volumes are available on our website www.bis.org. 