
===== PAGE 1 =====
 
 
 
 
BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 49 
 
Monetary policy operational frameworks – a new 
taxonomy1   
Central banks’ operational frameworks are at the heart of monetary policy implementation. Yet 
the conventional classification falls short of capturing their wider implications for banks' 
incentives and market outcomes . We propose a new taxonomy based on two key dimensions . 
First is the marginal opportunity cost of holding reserves, which influences banks’ incentives to 
trade reserves in the money market. Second is the quantity of reserves, which affects how banks 
manage liquidity risks and comply with regulatory and supervisory requirements. The continuous 
nature of the se dimensions allows for a granular classification of operational frameworks.  
Applying the taxonomy to real -world operational frameworks uncove rs unexpected similarities 
between distinct frameworks and highlights how similar designs can lead to differing outcomes.  
JEL classification: E42, E58 
Monetary policy operational frameworks (in short , operational frameworks) are 
critical for central banks. They  encapsulate the mechanisms and tools used to steer 
the central bank’s operational target in line with the desired policy stance  and to 
provide liquidity to the financial sector . As such, the operational framework enables 
the central bank to achieve its monetary policy and financial stability objectives.  
In recent years, changes in balance sheet size and composition have prompted 
central banks to re -examine how they implement monetary policy. Multiple rounds 
of quantitative easing (QE) following the Great Financial Crisis and the Covid-19 
pandemic led many central banks to transition from operational frameworks with 
scarce reserves, ie a small volume of reserves, to frameworks with ample or a large 
volume of reserves.
2 More recently, some central banks have combined balance sheet 
reductions with a reassessment of their operational framework design.  
Operational frameworks have traditionally been classified based on  where the 
overnight money market rate – typically the central bank's operational target – trades 
 
1  The views expressed in this publication are those of the authors and not necessarily those of the BIS 
or its member central banks . We thank Albert Pierres Tejada for excellent research assistance. For 
helpful comments, we are also grateful to Claudio Borio, Gaston Gelos, Patrick McGuire, Daniel Rees, 
Kilian Rieder, Andreas Schrimpf, Hyun Song Shin, Frank Smets, Nikola Tarashev and John Williams . 
Our thinking regarding the taxonomy, country -specific details and data availability benefited from 
conversations with central bank practitioners. Special thanks go to Chanutaporn Boonsongsawat, 
Rodrigo Cano and Per Åsberg-Sommar. All remaining errors are our own. 
2  See Cap et al (2020) for a detailed discussion about changes in operational frameworks after the 
Great Financial Crisis and Cantú et al (2021) for a discussion of central banks’ monetary response to 
the pandemic.  
Paolo Cavallino 
paolo.cavallino@bis.org 
Mathias Drehmann 
mathias.drehmann@bis.org 
Richard Finlay 
richard.finlay@ny.frb.org 
Julie Remache 
julie.remache@ny.frb.org 
    
===== PAGE 2 =====
 
 
 
 
50 BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 
 
relative to the interest rates set by the central bank.3 This classification, rooted in the 
seminal Poole (1968) model, identifies four archetypes, with the “corridor” system and 
the “floor” system being the most prominent . In a corridor system, the overnight 
interest rate trades in a “corridor” bounded from below by  the interest rate paid by 
the central bank on overnight deposits  and from above by the rate it charges on 
overnight loans. In contrast, in a floor system the overnight interest rate trades close 
to the interest rate the central bank pays on deposits.  
While the traditional classification of operational frameworks is helpful for 
encapsulating how central banks implement monetary policy, it does not fully capture 
their broader implications for banks ’ incentives and the financial system as a whole. 
Two dimensions are especially important: the marginal opportunity cost  of holding 
reserves, and the aggregate quantity of reserves. The former is the difference between 
the rate earned on lending an additional unit of reserves in the money market, and 
that earned by depositing it at the central bank. This cost is the key driver of banks’ 
incentives to trade reserves in the money market. The aggregate quantity of reserves 
affects how banks manage liquidity risks and comply with regulatory and supervisory 
requirements. The role of reserves in managing liquidity risks has been an important 
consideration for several central banks  that have recently changed their operational 
frameworks.  
The conventional archetypes are too coarse and fail to capture important 
variations along these key dimensions.  For example, corridor systems can operate 
with widely varying corridor widths  – from a few basis points to several percentage 
points – which imply very different marginal opportunity costs. Similarly, in floor 
systems the quantity of supplied reserves can vary significantly – from just above the 
level where the demand curve flattens to very large amounts.4 These differences have 
implications for banks’ incentives and behaviours. Moreover, conventional archetypes 
can at times be misleading, grouping distinct systems or separating similar ones, 
hampering comparisons of operational frameworks. These limitations have become 
increasingly apparent in recent decades, both when central bank s’ balance sheets 
expanded and more recently when they contracted. 
In this article, we propose a new  taxonomy that c ategorises operational 
frameworks along the two dimensions: (i) the marginal opportunity cost  of holding 
an additional unit of reserves ; and (ii) the aggregate quantity of reserves. The first 
 
3  Not all central bank operational targets are overnight money market rates. Some central banks have 
targeted a longer-term rate (eg the three-month or the 10-year rate) or the foreign exchange rate.  
4  The former case is often referred to as an ample supply of reserves, while the latter case is often 
referred to as an abundant supply of reserves.` 
Key takeaways 
• A new taxonomy of monetary policy operational frameworks explores two dimensions: the marginal 
opportunity cost of holding reserves and the quantity of reserves. 
• This taxonomy is rooted in economically relevant dimensions that influence and reflect banks’ incentives 
and, therefore, market outcomes. 
• When applied to current operational frameworks, the taxonomy  reveals surprising similarities between 
frameworks regarded as distinct and highlights how similar designs can yield very different outcomes.  
===== PAGE 3 =====
 
 
 
 
BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 51 
 
provides a precise measure of where the money market rate trades relative to the 
central bank’s deposit facility rate, moving beyond traditional labels that indicate only 
whether the money market rate trades “in the corridor” or “at the floor”. Similarly, the 
quantity of reserves offers a specific m easure of where on the demand curve the 
central bank operates.  
Applying the taxonomy to  real-world operational frameworks  uncovers 
surprising similarities between frameworks commonly regarded as distinct and 
highlights how similar designs can yield very different outcomes. For instance, the 
Reserve Bank of Australia, the Bank of Canada and Sveriges  Riksbank operate 
seemingly different operational frameworks but achieve similar outcomes: a 
moderately larg e quantity of reserves paired with a low, yet positive, marginal 
opportunity cost. On the other hand, the  Bank of Mexico, the Swiss National Bank 
and the Bank of Thailand design their frameworks to achieve a high marginal 
opportunity cost while maintain ing a lower average opportunity cost of holding 
reserves, but their outcomes vary. Reserve levels in Mexico and Thailand are 
significantly lower than in Switzerland. Additionally, the marginal opportunity cost of 
holding reserves in Mexico is much higher than in Thailand and Switzerland. 
The remainder of the article is organised as follows . First we briefly review the 
Poole (1968) model and the archetypal operational frameworks. Then we discuss the 
new taxonomy in more detail . Finally, we apply the new taxonomy to a select group 
of central banks. The  two boxes examin e how international prudential standards 
affect banks’ demand for reserves, and the balance sheet mechanics that influence 
the level of reserves in the system. 
Operational frameworks – a primer 
Operational frameworks  encapsulate the mechanisms and tools used to steer the 
central bank’s operational target in line with the desired policy stance and to provide 
liquidity to the financial sector . While multifaceted in practice, the core of any 
operational framework is the supply of reserves given the prevailing demand.  
Poole (1968) was the first to examine these issues  theoretically, laying the 
foundation for numerous models developed since.  These models of the  overnight 
market are based on two core features .5 First, central bank reserves are essential to 
settle payments flowing between banks during the day. Any bank that is short can 
borrow from the interbank market , but – if short at the end of the trading day – it 
needs to turn to the central bank and borrow from the lending facility  at a premium. 
Second, banks can lend reserves in the interbank market, with the standing central 
bank deposit facilit y serving as  the outside option for potential lenders . These 
features imply a non-linear reserve demand curve (Graph 1): for low levels of reserves, 
the demand curve is flat at the lending facility rate, while for high levels of reserves, 
the demand curve is flat at the deposit facility rate. Between these flat segments, the 
demand curve is downward-sloping.  
 
5  These features remain central to recent papers that incorporate search and matching, bargaining and 
heterogenous market participants in the money market (eg Lagos and Navarro (2024)). 
===== PAGE 4 =====
 
 
 
 
52 BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 
 
Against the backdrop of these models, operational frameworks are typically 
classified into four main archetypes: the “ceiling” system, the “corridor” system, the 
“floor” system and the “tiered” system.6 This taxonomy is based on where the money 
market rate trades relative to the rates on standing facilities or, equivalently, on which 
part of the demand curve the system operates: 
• In the ceiling system, the central bank operates on the upper flat segment 
of the demand curve  and supplies reserves via its standing lending facility 
(Graph 1 .A, point a ). As a result, the money market rate aligns with the 
lending facility rate.  
• In the corridor system, the  central bank calibrates the supply of reserves to 
intersect the  downward-sloping portion of the demand curve (point b). 
Here, the money market rate trades within the corridor defined by the rates 
of the two standing facilities.  
• In the floor system, the central bank provides a sufficiently large volume of 
reserves so that supply intersects the flat, lower segment  of the demand 
curve (point c). In this case, the money market rate trades at the deposit 
facility rate.  
• In the tiered system, the central bank engineers a second steep segment of 
the demand curve (Graph 1.B) by remunerating reserves up to a certain level 
at a higher rate , while reserves exceeding this level earn a lower rate.  The 
 
6  All four archetypes have been used at various times: ceiling systems were common around the turn 
of the 20th century when standing lending facilities were often the main tool used by central banks 
to supply reserves; corridor systems were common around the turn of the 21st century; and floor and 
tiered systems have become more common in recent years as some central bank balance sheets have 
grown alongside foreign exchange  intervention and unconventional monetary policies 
(Bindseil (2024)). 
Stylised description of the conventional classification of operating systems1 Graph 1 
A. Ceiling, corridor and floor systems  B. Tiered system 
 
 
 
1  The stylised description illustrates how the archetypical operating frameworks (ceiling, corridor, floor and tiered systems) operate on  
different parts of the demand for reserve curve.   
Source: Authors’ elaboration. 
===== PAGE 5 =====
 
 
 
 
BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 53 
 
central bank sets the supply to intersect this second steep segment, and the 
money market rate trades between the two renumeration rates (point d).  
A new operational framework taxonomy 
The traditional classification of operational frameworks is useful  for encapsulating 
how central banks steer their operational target in line with the desired policy stance, 
but it does not fully capture the implications of each framework for banks’ behaviour 
and the financial system.  To address this gap, we propose a new operational 
framework taxonomy based on two core dimensions: the marginal opportunity cost 
of holding reserves and the quantity of reserves. 
The marginal opportunity cost of holding reserves  
The marginal opportunity cost of holding reserves is defined as the difference 
between the rate at which one additional unit of reserves can be lent overnight in the 
market and the rate at which it can be deposited overnight at the central bank. 7 
This marginal opportunity cost plays a crucial role in shaping banks’ incentives 
to either accumulate or economise on reserves at the margin. Thereby, it influences 
the degree of activity in the overnight mon ey market.8 All else equal, a higher 
marginal opportunity cost strengthens a bank’s incentive to avoid holding more 
reserves than are strictly needed and to benefit from len ding reserves in the money 
market.  
The quantity of reserves 
The quantity of reserves is defined as  the aggregate quantity of reserves held by 
banks overnight in excess of any requirement set by the central bank.  
Banks hold these reserves overnight  as part of their overall portfolio decision , 
balancing risk and return considerations. Intraday, banks need reserves for payment 
and settlement purposes. But for banks considering whether and how many reserves 
to hold overnight, reserves are simply another asset with specific risk -return 
characteristics. In particular, reserves earn the interest rate on the deposit facility, 
which may be zero if they are unremunerated. From a risk perspective, reserves are 
the safest asset in the market , because central banks carry virtually no counterparty 
risk. From a liquidity risk perspective, reserves, unlike other high-quality liquid assets 
(HQLA), do not need to be monetised. Hence they are immediately available to meet 
outflows and are not subject to market risk. To put it differently , the quantity of 
reserves is the next day’s immediately available funding liquidity for banks.9 
 
7  If there is more than one overnight market rate – for example, an interbank unsecured rate and an 
interbank secured rate – we use whichever constitutes the central bank’s operational target. If neither 
does, we use whichever is a reference rate, or whichever market is larger. 
8  See, for instance, Bindseil and Jablecki (2011) and Blasques et al (2018).  
9 We define funding liquidity as the ability to settle obligations with immediacy  (Drehmann and 
Nikolaou (2013)). Consequenly, funding liquidity risk is the possibility that over a specific horizon the 
bank will become unable to settle obligations with immediacy, which depends on future in - and 
outflows including obtaining reserves from different sources such as the interbank market or selling 
assets.  
===== PAGE 6 =====
 
 
 
 
54 BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 
 
The aggregate quantity of reserves can therefore affect the extent to which banks 
hold reserves as part of their liquidity risk management strategy. This may include the 
use of reserves to fulfil regulatory and supervisory requirements (see Box A). Holding 
reserves rather than other HQLA may entail some benefits for banks’ liquidity risk 
management and overall financial stability. Bailey (2024), for instance, argues that the 
supply of reserves by the central bank should take into account  the increased size 
and speed of potential runs given that there are limits to the capacity of private 
markets and contingent facilities to convert other assets into reserves. Logan (2023) 
points out that reserves are the most liquid asset and argues that a system with a low 
quantity of reserves imposes a penalty on good liquidity risk management. That said, 
Acharya et al (2023) and Borio (2023) argue that the quantity of reserves supplied can 
fundamentally alter banks’ behaviour and business model s in ways that increase, 
rather than reduce, their liquidity risk and dependence on central bank  
support.
10  Indeed, there is empirical evidence that the demand curve for reserve s in 
major advanced economies has shifted outwards in recent years, although identifying 
the underlying drivers remains empirically challenging.11   
The quantity of reserves and the marginal opportunity cost of holding them are 
two independent but related dimensions . The quantity of reserves is tied to the 
average opportunity cost of holding them, defined as the average spread between 
the overnight money market rate and the rate earned on reserves held at the central 
bank. While central banks can set the aggregate quantity of reserves in the system, 
they cannot simultaneously set the aggregate quantity and their price; for banks to 
be willing to hold greater amount s of reserves, all else being equal, the average 
opportunity cost of holding reserves must decrease. 12  
The distinction between marginal and average opportunity cost is subtle, but 
important. In frameworks where the central bank pays a single rate on all reserves 
held overnight, marginal and average opportunity costs coincide. This occurs, for 
example, in the  archetypical corridor and floor systems. In the former, each unit of 
reserves incurs a high opportunity cost as the central bank deposit rate is below the 
market overnight interest rate. In the latter, the market rate trades close to the deposit 
facility, and again the marginal and average opportunity cost are the same. But in the 
archetypal tiering system, the central bank pays the policy rate on reserves up to 
certain bank-specific quotas, and a lower rate on reserves held above the quotas. In 
such a system, the average opportunity cost is low – or indeed negative, since the 
policy rate paid on reserves within the quota is higher than the market rate – but the 
marginal opportunity cost for banks with reserves above their quota is high. This 
 
10  An example of behavioural shifts by banks in response to central banks’ reserve supply is the case of 
Norway, where the central bank operated a floor system from 1990 to 2011. During this period, the 
Central Bank of Norway had to consistently increase its supply of reserves to maintain the short-term 
money market rate near the deposit rate. This trend was especially pronounced following the Great 
Financial Crisis. In October 2011, the central bank transitioned to a tiering system with a high marginal 
opportunity cost of holding reserves. Since implementing this new framework, the level of reserves 
has remained constant. See Central Bank of Norway (2014, 2021). 
11  See eg Maechler and Moser (2022), Lopez-Salido et al (2023), Afonso et al (2024) or Borio et al (2024). 
12  In theory, once the average opportunity cost of holding  reserves reaches zero (ie the central bank 
operates on the flat part of the reserves demand curve) the central bank can increase reserve supply 
without the average opportunity cost falling further. However, this might not necessarily be the case 
in practice, if key money market participants (eg non-bank financial institutions) do not have access 
to the deposit facility and there are limits to arbitrage for central bank counterparties. Indeed, there 
has been a “leaky floor” in the United States (for a long time) and the euro area (more recently) where 
money market rates have fallen below the deposit rate – a negative opportunity cost.   
===== PAGE 7 =====
 
 
 
 
BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 55 
 
generates incentives for banks to trade reserves in the money market. A s imilar 
outcome can be achieved if the central bank offers reserve- absorbing operations 
during the day at a rate higher than the deposit rate. 
Other relevant dimensions  
By focusing on the key dimensions that drive banks’ incentives, the proposed 
taxonomy does not capture the full complexity of operational frameworks in 
practice.13 One issue that has gained attention in recent years are the modalities of  
how the central bank supplies reserves, in particular whether it  fixes the quantity of 
reserves or their price, or utilises a combination of both . If the central bank fixes the 
quantity, banks’ demand determines the price of reserves. This approach of fixing the 
supply of reserves is sometimes referred to as  “supply-driven”. Conversely, if the 
central bank sets the price at which it injects or drains reserves and meets all demand 
at that price, it is banks’ demand that determines the quantity of reserves, a nd the 
framework is typically called “demand-driven”.14  
The distinction between frameworks that primarily rely on fixing quantities versus 
prices was prominent in recent operational framework reviews by central banks that 
have started to shrink their balance sheets.15 Unconventional monetary policies such 
as quantitative easing, funding for lending schemes and foreign exchange 
intervention – if not sterilis ed – increase the supply of reserves and lower the 
opportunity cost of holding reserves ( see Box B for a discussion of central bank 
balance sheet mechanics and the quantity of reserves). Once a central bank wants to 
maintain a low opportunity cost of holding reserves and at the same time shrink its 
balance sheet, it faces a choice: maintain a supply -driven operational framework or 
move to a demand -driven one. In both cases, the central bank has to account for 
variation in reserves demand if it wants to keep opportunity costs low  and avoid 
sudden jumps in money market rates. But demand- and supply-driven approaches 
address this uncertainty differently. The former allows the level of reserves to respond 
to demand. The latter seeks to estimate variation in demand ex ante and takes it into 
account when determining the level of reserve supply.  
Distinguishing supply - and demand -driven frameworks is not always 
straightforward, as central banks offer a range of operations that combine elements 
of both. For example, all central banks operating supply -driven frameworks offer a 
backstop lending facility designed to meet any additional demand for reserves at a 
fixed price for eligible banks that can post sufficient collateral. Frameworks commonly 
portrayed as supply-driven can also be very responsive to demand conditions , as is 
the situation in Canada. In this case,  the supply-driven systems are functionally very 
similar to demand-driven ones. Conversely, in demand-driven frameworks the central 
bank may still use operations commonly associated with supply -driven frameworks, 
such as government bond purchases or fixed -quantity term lending operations, to 
 
13  The Markets Committee Compendium on m onetary policy frameworks and central bank market 
operations provides a detailed overview across a wide range of dimensions for nearly 30 countries. 
See www.bis.org/mc/compendium.htm?m=147.  
14  Demand-driven frameworks are often implemented via fixed -price full allotment repo auctions, 
ie banks tell the central bank the quantity of reserves they want (at the fixed interest rate) , and the 
central bank supplies this quantity in full to banks. Meanwhile, one way to implement supply-driven 
frameworks is for the central bank to hold a variable rate repo auction to allocate a fixed quantity of 
reserves to bidding banks. Another is for the central bank to purchase a set quantity of securities in 
the market. 
15  See eg Bailey (2024), ECB (2024) and Kent (2024). 
===== PAGE 8 =====
 
 
 
 
56 BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 
 
supply at least a portion of reserves. Such an approach is used , for instance, in the 
United Kingdom. 
Box A 
International liquidity standards and banks’ demand for central bank reserves 
Rebeca Anguren, Ulf Lewrick and Nikola Tarashev  
International prudential standards that strengthen banks’ liquidity management could in principle interact with 
the implementation of monetary policy by affecting the demand for reserves  – the liquid asset par excellence. 
This box conceptually reviews whether the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and Net Stable Funding Ratio 
(NSFR) or other prudential standards may give rise to such interactions.  The review shows that Basel III does 
not impose any explicit regulatory requirements  on reserve holdings  but does create scope for supervisors to 
do so. By affecting cost-benefit trade-offs, prudential standards could also generate incentives for banks to hold 
more reserves. The materiality of the various effects hinges on the monetary policy operational framework. 
The operational framework determines which part  of the demand for reserves is relevant. Banks’ demand 
decreases with the difference between the overnight money market rate and the rate at the central bank deposit 
facility – that is, with the marginal opportunity cost of holding an additional unit of reserves ( see the stylised 
example in Graph A1). Under a prototypical framework with a high opportunity cost, the quantity demanded is 
low, reflecting mostly what banks need to hold (eg for payment purposes or to meet requirements): the blue 
supply curves cross the steep part of the demand curve. Under a low-opportunity cost framework, by contrast, 
the supply (green line) crosses the flat part of the demand curve at a high level of reserves that banks choose 
to hold in view of the relative returns on similar assets.  Importantly, the differen t parts of the demand for 
reserves would respond differently to prudential requirements and to stronger incentives to hold reserves. 
A prudential requirement would create interest-insensitive demand for reserves, shifting the curve outward 
(Graph A1.A). The resulting impact on the overnight interest rate would be stronger, all else being equal, under 
frameworks imposing a high opportunity cost (a rise from point a  to b). This creates a greater need for 
countervailing central bank actions – an increase in the supply of reserves – to ensure interest rate control (at 
point c). Conceptually, the demand and supply adjustments would resemble those under standard central bank 
reserve requirements. 
Hypothetical impact of prudential standards on banks’ demand for reserves1 Graph A1 
A. New or additional requirement to hold more reserves  B. Increased incentives to hold reserves 
 
 
 
1  Each panel portrays two frameworks, with distinct suppl ies of central bank reserves but facing the same demand for reserves. The target 
interest rate corresponds to point a (high marginal opportunity cost (OC) of holding reserves) or a’ (low OC). The depicted supply shift (from 
solid to dashed line) offsets the impact of a demand change on the overnight money market interest rate. 
Source: Authors’ elaboration. 
 
===== PAGE 9 =====
 
 
 
 
BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 57 
 
Standards that increase the regulatory or supervisory benefits of holding a certain level of reserves – but 
do not impose requirements –  would have different implications. Such standards would be inconsequential 
either at a high opportunity cost that dwarfs the new benefits or when banks already hold the amount necessary 
to achieve these benefits. In intermediate cases, however, the incentives stemming from the standards would 
raise the demand for reserves ( Graph A1.B). This would prompt the central bank to pre -empt an interest  rate 
rise (from point a’ to b’) by supplying more reserves (at point c’), thus ensuring interest rate control. 
The above conceptual considerations notwithstanding, the  LCR and NSFR are not designed to affect the 
demand for reserves . Neither formulates an explicit requirement for reserve holdings. Further,  the LCR treats 
equally reserves and other Level 1 high -quality liquid assets ( HQLA), eg domestic sovereign bonds. While the 
NSFR in principle treats reserves slightly more favourably than other Level 1 HQLA, many jurisdictions eliminate 
this difference. Thus, in practice, these two standards also do not alter banks’ incentives to hold reserves.  
That said, the Basel III liquidity standards create scope for supervisors to influence the demand for reserves. 
For instance, the standards prescribe monetisation tests that guide supervisory assessments of banks’ ability to 
liquidate non-reserve HQLA in private markets.  Stricter assumptions about market conditions and more dire 
consequences of failing these tests strengthen banks’ incentives to hold reserves, as they help to reduce market 
liquidity risks and operational limitations . As further similar exa mples, intraday liquidity considerations or 
supervisory stress tests that impose losses on non-reserve HQLA could incentivise banks to increase their reserve 
holdings. In extreme cases,  a conservative implementation of the standards  or stringent supervisory actions  
could create interest-insensitive demand for reserves – similar to the effect of a requirement.  
Factors other than Basel III liquidity standards  could also influence banks’ incentives to hold central bank 
reserves. For instance, stricter margining requirements that seek to reduce settlement risk may increase banks’ 
need for central banks reserves in times of market volatility . The anticipation of such needs could lead to a 
higher precautionary demand for reserves in frameworks with low marginal costs of holding them.  
Proper assessment of the above mechanisms’ quantitative implications for the conduct of monetary policy 
requires empirical analysis, which is beyond the scope of this box. Importantly, only unpredictable shifts in the 
demand for reserves could interfere with interest rate control – eg shifts in response to margin calls triggered 
by a sudden spike in market volatility – as the central bank may be able to address them only with a lag. By 
contrast, as the monopoly supplier of reserves, a central bank can pre-empt any undesirable effect of predictable 
demand shifts on the overnight interest rate. 
  The views expressed in this publication are those of the authors and not necessarily those of the BIS or its member central 
banks.      The LCR seeks to ensure that banks maintain sufficient high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) to cover net cash outflows over 
a 30-day stress scenario. The NSFR requires banks to maintain a stable funding profile to reduce reliance on short -term wholesale 
funding. See also B asel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS), Principles for sound liquidity risk management and super vision, 
September 2008.       The picture is more complex under a n archetypal tiering framework,  which is not covered in this 
box.      Minimum reserve requirements are imposed by central banks for liquidity management and monetary policy reasons  in 
many jurisdictions.       While Basel III sets the stable funding requirement for non-reserve Level 1 HQLA at 5% and for reserves and 
cash at 0% (see NSFR 30.25 and 30.26), many  jurisdictions apply a uniform 0% funding requirement (see  eg BCBS, Regulatory 
Consistency Assessment Programme (RCAP) Assessment of Basel NSFR regul ations – European Union, June  2022; or BCBS, RCAP 
Assessment of Basel NSFR regulations –  United States, July 2023.      The LCR standard requires banks to periodically monetise a 
representative proportion of the assets to test market access, monetisation processes and collateral availability (see LCR  
30.15).       For example, in response to the March 2020 jump in margin requirements, central bank reserves became a more 
important source of liquidity in  both absolute and relative terms (see BCBS -Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures -
International Organization of Securities Commissions, Review of margining practices, 2022).  
 
  
===== PAGE 10 =====
 
 
 
 
58 BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 
 
Box B 
Central bank balance sheet mechanics and the quantity of reserves  
This box explores key balance sheet mechanics that influence the level of reserves in the system. Central banks 
have full control over some balance sheet items (Graph B1). For example, they can increase the level of reserves 
by conducting standard open market operations either via outright asset purchases or lending 
operations.  But changes in other balance sheet items can be outside the control of the central bank – the so-
called autonomous factors – or implemented by the central bank with another primary objective than managing 
the quantity of reserves. That said, central bank s have the tools to offset the impact of these changes, which 
they have done to varying degrees across countries.  
A stylised central bank balance sheet Graph B1 
 
Source: Authors’ elaboration. 
Currency in circulation, or cash, and the government account are the two most important autonomous 
factors on the liability side. For instance, when the public demands more currency,  banks exchange reserves at 
the central bank for cash, which reduces the total reserves available in the banking system. Equally, government 
deposits at the central bank also have a significant mechanical impact on reserves. When the government 
collects taxes or issues debt, reserves are transferred to the government’s account at the central bank, thus 
depleting reserves held there by the  banking system. Conversely, when the government spends from its central 
bank account, it injects reserves back into the banking system. The se flows can be large and sometimes 
unpredictable, which can lead to sizeable fluctuations in reserves. 
Foreign exchange (FX) operations and unconventional monetary policy operations, such as quantitative 
easing\tightening (QE\QT) or long-term lending operations, also change the quantity of reserves but typically 
have objectives other than managing the quantity of reserves per se. For examp le, w hen a central bank 
intervenes in the foreign exchange market to buy foreign currency, it injects domestic currency into the banking 
system, increasing reserves. Equally, purchases of government securities increase the level of reserves in the 
system as a central bank buys a domestic asset, eg a government bond, by issuing reserves.  
While FX operations and unconventional monetary policy operations change the quantity of reserves 
initially, central banks can “sterilise” the impact. That is, an initial increase of reserves can be reverted by, for 
instance, issuing central bank bills or other liquidity-absorbing operations, such as reverse repos (Graph B2). As 
these liabilities are paid for in reserves, a central bank can, if desired, keep the level of reserves constant despite 
changes in the overall balance sheet size.   
Over the last decades, FX and unconventional monetary policy operations have been the key drivers of the 
size of central bank balance sheets, but central banks have dealt differently with associated implications for the 
level of reserves (Graph B.3). In many major advanced economies, large QE interventions or long -term lending 
operations increased central banks ’ balance sheets dramatically. The majority of these central banks did not 
sterilise these intervention s. Instead, the level of reserves increased al ongside these interventions, so that the 
share of reserves to total assets increased, as was eg the case in the United States. In many emerging market  
economies, central bank balance sheets have grown alongside FX reserves. However, emerging market  central 
banks, such as the Bank of Mexico, have typically absorbed these reserves, for instance by issuing central bank 
bills or conducting FX swaps. While these have tended to increase with the balance sheet size, there is no one-
to-one mapping as the central bank can vary the use of different reserve-absorbing operations.  
===== PAGE 11 =====
 
 
 
 
BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 59 
 
Central bank balance sheet after asset purchases Graph B2 
A. Original balance sheet  B. After asset purchases, without 
sterilisation 
 C. After asset purchases, with 
sterilisation 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Authors’ elaboration. 
 
Central bank assets and reserves1 Graph B3 
 
1  Based on annual data from 2006 to 2024. 
Sources: National central banks; LSEG Datastream; BIS; authors’ calculations. 
  If they want to absorb reserves, central banks can sell assets or conduct reverse repos. 
Applying the taxonomy to central bank practices  
To apply the taxonomy in practice, we make two adjustments to the definition of the 
quantity of reserves. First, as previously noted, we exclude required reserves, as these 
are not held for risk -return considerations.  Second, we include other non- reserve 
central bank liabilities that, from a bank’s perspective, have similar characteristics to 
reserves for managing liquidity risk. This adjustment reflects the fact that some central 
banks absorb reserves by issuing instruments that closely resemble reserves  from a 
liquidity risk management perspective.16 
 
16  T hese instruments cannot be used to settle payments,  but they share similar risk and liquidity 
characteristics with reserves.  Whether a central bank non -reserve liability is sufficiently similar to 
 
10 15 20 25 30 35 40
−10
0
10
20
30
40
50
US MX
Assets (% of GDP)
Reserves (% of assets)
===== PAGE 12 =====
 
 
 
 
60 BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 
 
Graph 2 presents the taxonomy for 12 jurisdictions  in 2024 along the two 
dimensions: the marginal opportunity cost and the quantity of reserves. To ensure 
the comparability across countries and time, we normalise the quantity of reserves by 
total bank credit to the private non-financial sector as a readily available proxy for the 
size of the banking sector. Several insights emerge from the graph.  
First, the taxonomy captures the substantial heterogeneity that exists within each 
dimension. For instance, marginal opportunity costs range from above 11 percentage 
points in Mexico, to small negative values in the euro area, the United Kingdom and 
the United States. Similarly, the quantity of reserves varies widely across jurisdictions, 
ranging from zero in Korea to close to 65% of bank credit to the private non-financial 
sector in Japan. 
Second, s ome central banks operate frameworks that align closely with the 
canonical archetypes. For instance, the Bank of Korea and the Reserve Bank of India 
implement frameworks with zero (or near -zero) reserves and high marginal 
opportunity costs, resembling the archetypal corridor system. In contrast, the ECB,  
Federal Reserve and  Bank of England maintain frameworks characteris ed by large 
quantities of reserves and zero or negative marginal opportunity costs, aligning with 
the archetypal floor system. The Bank of Japan operates a similar framework but with 
a substantially larger quantity of reserves.  
Third, the taxonomy highlights  surprising similarities between frameworks that 
are not immediately apparent in the traditional classification . The Reserve Bank of 
Australia, the Bank of Canada and Sveriges Riksbank operate seemingly different 
operational frameworks but achieve similar outcomes: a moderately large quantity of 
reserves paired with a low, yet positive, marginal opportunity cost. The Bank of 
Canada operates what it refers to as a floor system, remunerating reserves held at the 
deposit facility at 5 basis points below the policy target rate and supplying reserves 
 
reserves to include in our definition is to some extent a matter of judgment and will depend on the 
context of each jurisdiction. For the purposes of this article, we include central bank liabilities that 
mature the following day such as reverse repos with an overnight maturity. This is empirically relevant 
for Mexico, Sweden and Thailand. 
Operational frameworks across jurisdictions Graph 2 
 
1  Reserves are normalised by bank credit to the private non-financial sector.    2  The marginal opportunity cost of holding reserves is defined 
as the difference between the short -term money market rate and the remuneration rate of reserves (for tiering systems, the remuneration 
rate above quota).     3  Y-axis is truncated, MX marginal opportunity cost = 11.10; x-axis is truncated, JP reserves = 0.63. 
Sources: National central banks; LSEG Datastream; BIS; authors’ calculations. 
0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.7
−0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
11
Annual average, 2024
Reserves 1 
Marginal opportunity cost
(% pts) 2 
//
AUCA
CH
GB
IN
JP 3 
KR
MX 3 
SE
TH
US
EA
===== PAGE 13 =====
 
 
 
 
BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 61 
 
through ad  hoc fixed -quantity overnight repo auctions at the policy target rate.  
Sveriges Riksbank conducts full -allotment weekly reserve -absorbing operations at 
the policy rate and remunerates reserves held at the deposit facility at a rate 10 basis 
points below the policy rate. It refers to this approach as a “ narrow corridor ”. In 
contrast, the Reserve Bank of Australia supplies reserves through fixed  rate full -
allotment repo operations priced at 10 basis points above the policy rate, with the 
policy rate in turn 10 basis points above the deposit rate, describing its framework as 
“ample reserves with full allotment”. Despite these differences in design, these three 
frameworks create similar incentives and market outcomes.  
Finally, t he taxonomy reveals the frameworks where marginal and average 
opportunity costs diverge – a surprising commonality between Mexico, Switzerland 
and Thailand. But the tools used to implement such frameworks differ, as well as the 
ultimate outcomes. The Swiss National Bank remunerates reserves at the policy rate 
up to bank -specific quotas, applying a lower rate to reserves exceeding these 
thresholds. The Bank of Thailand and the Bank of Mexico conduct daily reserve -
absorbing operations at the policy rate  and pay a lower rate at their deposit 
facility.17  Despite all these framework s achieving high marginal opportunity costs 
and low average ones, the specific outcomes in terms of marginal opportunity costs 
and reserve level s vary. Reserve levels in Mexico and Thailand –  counting reserves 
held at the deposit facility as well as other overnight central bank liabilities as noted 
above – are significantly lower than in Switzerlan d. Additionally, the marginal 
opportunity cost of holding reserves in Mexico is much higher than in Thailand and 
Switzerland as the deposit facility is not renumerated and thus marginal opportunity 
costs fluctuate with the money market rate that tracks the policy rate.  
While Graph 2 provides a snapshot of monetary policy operational frameworks  
in 2024, it does not capture the significant changes over the past 15 years (Graph 3).  
Consider the cases of the euro area, the United Kingdom and the United States , 
and to a lesser extent Sweden,  which are  typical for many advanced economies. 
Before the Great Financia l Crisis, it was standard to utilise operational frameworks 
with low reserve levels and high marginal opportunity costs. Opportunity costs 
differed across jurisdictions because of the width of the corridor (ie the difference 
between the lending and deposit facility rates) and whether it was symmetric or not. 
But once central banks implemented large-scale QE programmes and long -term 
lending operations they transitioned to frameworks with large quantities of reserves. 
And as reserve levels increased  – and with this their average opportunity cost fell – 
central banks allowed the marginal opportunity costs to fall in parallel. The evolution 
in Sweden is somewhat similar, except that QE programmes only started after the 
pandemic and balance sheet shrinkage is more advanced. Moreover, Sweden 
employed daily fine-tuning operations up to 2019, so that average opportunity costs 
diverge from marginal ones before the onset of QE.  
 
17  The timing and specifics of the reserve-absorbing operations differ in Mexico and Thailand. In Mexico, 
reserves are absorbed near the end of the trading day through an auction with a maximum price 
capped at the policy rate . In Thailand, the central bank offers fixed -price full-allotment overnight 
reverse repos at the policy rate early each morning.  
===== PAGE 14 =====
 
 
 
 
62 BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 
 
In contrast, operational frameworks in most emerging market economies  have 
remained unchanged over the past two decades  as central banks continued to 
operate with high opportunity costs despite fairly large balance sheets. The evolution 
in Korea exemplifies the classical “corridor” system. Reserves (above minimum reserve 
requirements) have been low and marginal opportunity costs have ranged between 
50 and 100 basis points because the central bank changed the width of the corridor 
during periods of stress. In Mexico, the volume of reserves changed because the Bank 
of Mexico changed the volume of overnight reserve -absorbing operations. At the 
same time, marginal opportunity costs fluctuated  with the monetary  policy rate  
because the deposit rate has been unremunerated , as discussed above. The 
framework hence provides strong incentives to trade in the money market, which has 
had a daily turnover of close to 5% of GDP.  
The historical evolution of frameworks  Graph 3 
A. United States1  B. Euro area  C. United Kingdom 
 
 
 
 
 
D. Mexico  E. Korea  F. Sweden 
 
 
 
 
 
1  Y-axis is truncated, US marginal opportunity cost = 5 in 2006 and 5.1 in 2007.     2  Reserves are normalised by bank credit to the private 
non-financial sector.    3  The marginal opportunity cost of holding reserves is defined as the difference between the short-term money market 
rate and the remuneration rate of reserves (for tiering systems, the remuneration rate above quota). 
Sources: National central banks; LSEG Datastream; BIS; authors’ calculations. 
0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
5.00
Reserves 2 
  
Marginal opportunity cost
(% pts) 3 
2006
2008
2009 2012 2014
2019 2020
//
0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
Reserves 2 
  
Marginal opportunity cost
(% pts) 3 
2006
2008
2010
2012
2016
2020
20222024
0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
Reserves 2 
  
Marginal opportunity cost
(% pts) 3 
2006
2009
2010 2019 2021
2024
0.0 0.1 0.2
0
2
4
6
8
10
Reserves 2 
  
Marginal opportunity cost
(% pts) 3 2006
2008
20102016
2020
2022
2024
0.0 0.1 0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Reserves 2 
  
Marginal opportunity cost
(% pts) 3 
2008
2012
2018
2020
2024
0.0 0.1 0.2
−0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Reserves 2 
  
Marginal opportunity cost
(% pts) 3 
2006
2008
2012
2018
2020
2022
2024
===== PAGE 15 =====
 
 
 
 
BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 63 
 
Conclusion  
This article proposes a new taxonomy for classifying operational frameworks. By 
focusing on two key dimensions – the marginal opportunity cost of holding reserves 
and the aggregate quantity of reserves –  the taxonomy captures the ways in which 
central bank frameworks shape banks’ incentives and financial market outcomes.  
Applying the taxonomy to real -world operational frameworks uncover s 
surprising similarities between frameworks commonly regarded as distinct  and 
highlights how similar designs can yield very different outcomes. It also sheds light 
on the evolution of operational frameworks over time, particularly in response to 
shifts in central bank balance sheet expansions and contractions. This granular 
approach not only enhances cross -country comparisons but also provides a more 
accurate understanding of how operational  frameworks influence liquidity 
management and market behaviour. 
 
 
 
===== PAGE 16 =====
 
 
 
 
64 BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 
 
References 
Acharya, V, R Chauhan, R Rajan and S Steffen (2024): “Liquidity dependence and the 
waxing and waning of central bank balance sheets”, NBER Working Paper, no 31050, 
December. 
Afonso, G, D Giannone, G La Spada and J Williams (2024): “Scarce, abundant, or 
ample? A time-varying model of the reserve demand curve”, Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York Staff Working Papers, no 1019, May. 
Bailey, A (2024): “The importance of central bank reserves ”, lecture in honour of 
Charles Goodhart, London School of Economics, 21 May. 
Bindseil, U (2024): Monetary policy implementation: theory, past and present, Oxford 
University Press.  
Bindseil,  U  a n d  J  J a b ł e c k i (2011): “The optimal width of the central bank standing 
facilities corridor and banks' day-to-day liquidity management”, ECB Working Paper, 
no 1350. 
Blasques, F, F Bräuning and I Van Lelyveld  (2018): “A dynamic network model of the 
unsecured interbank lending market ”, Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control , 
vol 90, pp 310–42.  
Borio, C (2023): “Getting up from the floor”, BIS Working Papers, no 1100, May. 
Borio, C, P Disyatat and A  Schrimpf (2024): “The double -faced demand for bank 
reserves and its implications”, VoxEU.org, 15 February. 
Cantú, C, P Cavallino, F De Fiore and J Yetman (2021): “A global database on central 
banks’ monetary responses to Covid-19”, BIS Working Papers, no 934, March. 
Cap, A, M Drehmann and A Schrimpf (2020): “Changes in monetary policy operating 
procedures over the last decade: Insights from a new database”, BIS Quarterly Review, 
December, pp 27–39. 
Central Bank of Norway  (2014): “Banks’ assessment of Norges Bank’s liquidity 
management”, Norges Bank Papers, no 4/2014. 
——— (2021): “Norges Bank’s liquidity policy: principles and design”, Norges Bank 
Papers, no 3/2021. 
Drehmann, M and K Nikolaou (2013) : “Funding liquidity risk: definition and 
measurement”, Journal of Banking and Finance, vol 37, no 7, pp 2173–82. 
European Central Bank ( ECB) (2024): “Changes to the operational framework for 
implementing monetary policy”, statement by the Governing Council, 13 March. 
Kent, C (2024) : “The future system for monetary policy implementation ”, speech at 
the Bloomberg Australia Briefing, Sydney, 2 April. 
Lagos, R and G Navarro (2023): “Monetary policy operations: theory, evidence, and 
tools for quantitative analysis”, NBER Working Papers, no 31370, June. 
Logan, L (2023) : “Ample reserves and the Friedman rule”, s peech at the European 
Central Bank Conference on Money Markets, Frankfurt, 10 November.  
Lopez-Salido, D and A Vissing-Jorgensen (2023): “Reserve demand, interest rate 
control, and quantitative tightening”, SSRN Working Paper, March.  
===== PAGE 17 =====
 
 
 
 
BIS Quarterly Review, September 2025 65 
 
Maechler, A and T Moser (2022) : “Return to positive interest rates: why reserve 
tiering?”, speech at the Money Market Event, Geneva, 17 November. 
Poole, W  (1968): “Commercial bank reserve management in a stochastic model: 
implications for monetary policy”, The Journal of Finance, vol 23, no 5, pp 769–91. 
 