
===== PAGE 1 =====
 
 
I would like to thank Kaetlynd McRae for her help in preparing this speech. 
 
Not for publication before January 16, 2025 
12:30 p.m. Eastern Time 
  
 
  
Remarks by Toni Gravelle 
Deputy Governor of the Bank of Canada 
VersaFi (formerly Women in Capital Markets) 
January 16, 2025 
Toronto, Ontario 
 
The end of quantitative tightening  and 
what comes next 
Introduction 
Good afternoon. Thank you, Tanya, for the kind introduction. And thank you to 
VersaFi for hosting this event. 
The Bank of Canada’s balance sheet has been larger than normal for a few 
years now. That’s because of the role it played during the COVID-19 crisis, in 
making sure financial markets could work properly and in setting the economy on 
a path to recovery.  
As we began to emerge from the worst of the pandemic, we ended quantitative 
easing (QE) in October 2021. Six months later, in April 2022, we started 
shrinking the balance sheet through quantitative tightening (QT), a process that 
continues today. Under QT, we have been letting our bond holdings roll off the 
balance sheet as they mature, without replacing them.  
Last year, I said we thought that QT, also known as balance sheet normalization, 
would end sometime in 2025. Well, it’s 2025. And since I had also promised to 
deliver any news about QT ahead of time, that is why I am here today.  
When QT ends, we will be back to business as usual for how we manage the 
balance sheet. This will look a lot like how we managed it before the pandemic, 
which I outlined in a speech last March.1 Essentially, we’ll be purchasing assets 
mainly to offset the growth of currency in circulation—the cash in your wallets.  
But some things have changed in the five years since the start of the pandemic. 
In particular, the payment system has evolved, and so has our monetary policy 
implementation framework. As a result, some evolution in how we manage our 
balance sheet is needed. So, today I’ll give you an update on: 
 
1 See T. Gravelle, “Going back to normal: The Bank of Canada’s balance sheet after quantitative 
tightening,” (speech to CFA Society Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, March 21, 2024).  

===== PAGE 2 =====
 
 
- 2 - 
• when, roughly, we expect QT to end 
• how we will manage the balance sheet after QT ends and we resume 
our business-as-usual asset purchases  
• what the likely drivers are of recent pressures in overnight funding 
markets  
Our estimate of demand for settlement balances 
Let me start with a bit of background about a crucial element of our balance 
sheet, one that is key to guiding our QT process. I’m talking about settlement 
balances—what most other jurisdictions call central bank reserves.  
These represent a liability on our balance sheet.2 They are interest-bearing 
deposits held at the Bank of Canada that belong to members of Lynx, Canada’s 
high-value wholesale payment system, who use them to settle large payments 
with each other. Lynx members include the biggest banks, which process the 
bulk of payments in Canada and, as a result, hold most of the settlement 
balances.  
The interest rate that we pay on settlement balances is called the deposit rate. 
Due to arbitrage in overnight funding markets, the rate for overnight 
repurchase—or repo—agreements in these markets tends to be at or close to 
our deposit rate. And since the deposit rate moves one-for-one with our target 
policy rate, this helps ensure that the one-day or “overnight” market rate used by 
financial institutions is also at, or close to, our target rate.  
When we change our policy rate, this implies an equivalent change in the deposit 
rate, leading to changes in the overnight rate and, in turn, influencing longer-term 
interest rates, such as on mortgages or business loans. This is how we 
implement our monetary policy and ensure that it is reflected in borrowing and 
lending rates throughout the economy. 
Now, as I discussed in my speech last March, because we now operate in a floor 
system, our aim in steady state is to supply just enough settlement balances to 
satisfy the demand for them from banks and other Lynx participants.3 Currently, 
though, the amount of settlement balances on our books is higher than our best 
estimate of that demand because of the balance sheet measures that we took 
during the pandemic. So, as we shrink our balance sheet through QT, we are 
lowering the supply of settlement balances toward our best estimate of demand. 
This lower level is really a range, because we use a few different approaches to 
estimate the demand for settlement balances.  
In estimating the overall demand for settlement balances in the financial system, 
we look at two types of demand. The first is payments-driven demand, which is 
the amount needed for Canada’s high-value payments system to operate 
 
2 For more detail about how our balance sheet works and its role in the Canadian financial 
system and economy, see the dedicated page on the Bank’s website. 
3 For a detailed discussion of why we switched to a floor system for implementation of our 
monetary policy, see my speech from March 2024. 
===== PAGE 3 =====
 
 
- 3 - 
smoothly. In other words, the amount of settlement balances that Lynx members 
want to keep on hand so that they can settle daily payments with each other.  
The second type is precautionary demand. This is where risk-free and liquid 
assets, such as Government of Canada (GoC) bonds or settlement balances, are 
held as a buffer against unexpected funding or liquidity shocks.  
But measuring either payments- or precaution-driven demand for settlement 
balances is difficult. So, to come up with the best estimate that we can, we 
regularly survey and speak with banks and other Lynx participants to help us 
understand how much demand there is. And in the latter part of 2024, we 
determined from these discussions and our own subsequent analysis that 
precautionary demand had grown beyond the level we had previously estimated.   
Earlier last year, we thought QT would end when our settlement balances 
declined to a $20 billion to $60 billion range. This was based on our estimate of 
Lynx participant demand at the time.  
Due to our updated assessment of precautionary demand, we have revised the 
range upward to between $50 billion and $70 billion. Of this, we continue to see 
about $20 billion to $30 billion being needed to support the payments system. 
The rest of the range is what we now expect precautionary demand to be.  
Currently, we have about $130 billion in settlement balances, down from a peak 
of around $395 billion during the pandemic.  
As you can see from the chart (Chart 1), we expect settlement balances to reach 
our new estimated range around mid-year. 
 
===== PAGE 4 =====
 
 
- 4 - 
 
 
So that brings me to when we will end QT and start buying assets again as part 
of our business-as-usual balance sheet management process.  
Based on the maturity profile of our assets, settlement balances are expected to 
fall well below the $50 billion to $70 billion range in the third quarter, due to a 
very large GoC bond maturity coming due on September 1, 2025 (Chart 2).  
 
 

===== PAGE 5 =====
 
 
- 5 - 
 
 
To achieve a smoother glide path for settlement balances as they fall ahead of 
that large maturity, we will need a transition process where asset purchases help 
to offset the sharp and sudden drop. That means we will need to restart our 
normal-course asset purchases gradually, and well before September. 
As a result, we expect to announce the end of QT and the associated restart of 
our business-as-usual asset purchases in the first half of this year. When we 
make that announcement, we will also publish a market notice with more details 
about the asset acquisition process, including the timing of our initial purchases 
and expected amounts. Given this timeline, I expect we will be the first major 
central bank, or among the first, to finish unwinding its pandemic-related QE 
asset purchases. That reflects three considerations. First, going into the 
pandemic, our balance sheet was smaller as a proportion of gross domestic 
product relative to other central banks because we hadn’t used QE before. 
Second, we ended QE earlier than others. And third, the maturity profile of our 
asset holdings coming out of our COVID actions was shorter, so QT has gone 
faster in Canada than in most other jurisdictions.  
As you can see from this chart, in terms of assets as a share of the economy, our 
balance sheet is already smaller than those in other major jurisdictions (Chart 3).  
 
 

===== PAGE 6 =====
 
 
- 6 - 
 
 
The estimated range for settlement balances will evolve over time 
Once we resume purchasing assets to offset the growth of currency in 
circulation, we will aim to manage our balance sheet in a way that keeps 
settlement balances in the range of $50 billion to $70 billion. But there may be 
brief periods when the amount falls below or rises above this range.4  
I also want to stress that, over the long term, demand for settlement balances will 
continue to evolve as the financial system evolves. So the amount that the major 
banks and other Lynx participants want to hold will likely vary as well. This 
means we will probably adjust our estimated range from time to time, possibly 
both up and down, to reflect changes in settlement balance demand. This way, 
we can make sure that our framework for implementing monetary policy remains 
effective at keeping the overnight rate in markets close to our target for the policy 
rate. 
 
4 In steady state, settlement balances will fluctuate in the new range due to autonomous 
variations in our other major liabilities. For example, fluctuations in the amount of funds the 
Government of Canada puts in its deposit account with us will cause offsetting fluctuations in the 
level of settlement balances, all other things being equal. Fluctuations can also occur due to 
differences in the timing and size of our asset purchases versus the relatively lumpy maturities of 
our legacy asset holdings. We will aim to minimize fluctuations in order to keep settlement 
balances in the range but, on rare occasions, we may not always be able to for a day or so. 

===== PAGE 7 =====
 
 
- 7 - 
While our core objective is to supply enough settlement balances in the financial 
system for us to be able to implement our monetary policy effectively, that’s not 
our only consideration. Another important factor is market discipline, given that 
we are also responsible for promoting a stable and efficient financial system.  
What do I mean by this? Well, we don’t want to see major banks and other core 
financial institutions under-investing in their capacity to robustly manage their 
liquidity because they have developed an unhealthy over-reliance on settlement 
balances. In managing their liquidity needs, financial market participants should 
be able to respond to fluctuations in those needs in other ways—for example, 
through access to markets.  
Going forward, our assessment of the optimal range of settlement balances will 
account for the evolving nature of both payments and the financial system, as 
well as the need to maintain market discipline.   
The return to business-as-usual balance sheet management 
Okay, so what will business-as-usual look like after QT ends?  
Under our normal course of balance sheet management, we buy assets on a 
passive basis to reflect the autonomous rise in our liabilities. Traditionally, the 
biggest liability has been currency in circulation. Demand for cash usually grows 
at roughly the same speed as the nominal growth of the economy.  
I want to be clear, though, that while QT is almost finished, the composition of 
our asset holdings won’t be back to normal for quite some time. As I explained in 
my speech last March, we want to restore a more balanced mix of assets with a 
broader range of maturities—including more short-term assets—than we hold 
now. Currently, our asset portfolio is made up almost entirely of GoC bonds. And 
as a result, our asset holdings have a maturity profile that skews longer than it 
did before the pandemic. Going forward, we will hold not only GoC bonds but 
also GoC treasury bills (t-bills) and term repos, just as we did before the 
pandemic.  
In steady state, we will aim to have the amount of our floating-rate assets, mostly 
term repos and t-bills, match the amount of our floating-rate liabilities, which 
include settlement balances. And we will aim to have the size of our bond 
holdings roughly match currency in circulation, given that currency is assumed to 
be a permanent liability. Although our asset purchase plan will be designed to 
ramp up to this steady-state composition, our asset growth is limited by how 
quickly currency in circulation grows. So we may not reach that composition until 
around 2030. 
I want to emphasize that we will not be buying assets on an active basis to 
stimulate the economy like we did during the pandemic when we were doing QE. 
Our normal asset purchases before the pandemic were not QE. And our normal 
asset purchases after QT ends will not be QE either.  
Now let’s get into some of the specifics of our purchasing plans.  
When we start growing our assets again for business-as-usual balance sheet 
management, we will start with term repo operations. These will be 1- and 3-
month terms, and we will gradually ramp up the amounts through bi-weekly 
===== PAGE 8 =====
- 8 - 
operations. 
T-bill purchases will take place in the primary market. We expect them to resume
in the fourth quarter of this year, initially with relatively small amounts through
each bi-weekly GoC debt auction.
GoC bond purchases will likely not start until toward the end of 2026—at the 
earliest. But, as we get closer to purchasing bonds, we will announce the timing 
well in advance.  
When we start buying GoC bonds again in the normal course of business, we will 
do so in the secondary market, via reverse auctions. Secondary market 
purchases align with benchmark practices at other major central banks that buy 
their home jurisdiction’s government bonds as part of their normal-course 
balance sheet management. And there are advantages to doing it this way 
compared with buying bonds in the primary market—that is, at GoC auctions—
which was our practice before the pandemic.  
One advantage is that secondary market purchases will give us the flexibility to 
buy any GoC bonds outstanding across the full spectrum of maturities, rather 
than being limited to what’s on offer at individual GoC bond auctions. This will 
allow us to replace maturing bonds with bonds from the maturity buckets that we 
want, which will help us rebalance the maturity structure of our balance sheet 
more quickly.  
Buying in the secondary market also helps enhance the GoC bond market’s 
functioning and liquidity. It gives participants more regular opportunities to trade 
and see pricing points for off-the-run securities that are less liquid than on-the-
run bonds. 
When we do become a regular buyer in these markets again, a couple of key 
principles will guide us to help ensure that our presence leans toward enhancing 
market functioning. First and foremost, we want to limit the market impact of our 
purchase operations. Our bond purchase operations, for example, will be price-
sensitive, and we won’t necessarily buy everything that dealers offer to us. And 
second, we will always aim to be as transparent and predictable as possible. For 
example, we will publish calls for tender ahead of our operations, as well as 
quarterly purchase schedules.  
So now you know what comes next once we’ve finished QT. 
Where do recent repo market pressures fit? 
Before I conclude, let me also take this opportunity to say a few words about the 
recent pressures in repo markets and how they fit into all this.  
I want to be clear that we will not be ending QT out of any concern about the 
functioning of repo markets. Our assessment is that, for the most part, other 
factors are causing these pressures. I also want to be very clear that the 
pressures in repo markets are not a reflection or indication of broader financial 
system stress. 
Last year, our analysis determined that upward pressure in repo markets was 
being caused primarily by positioning in bond and futures markets, largely by 
===== PAGE 9 =====
 
 
- 9 - 
hedge funds.5 Through our more recent monitoring and discussions, we can see 
that hedge fund activity and positioning continue to contribute to higher funding 
requirements sourced in the repo market. These have led to upward pressure on 
repo market rates—along with other factors, such as the transition to a one-day 
settlement period for trades, also known as T+1 settlement.6  
We’ve also seen greater upward pressure on rates in overnight repo markets 
around regulatory reporting dates, such as at year-end or quarter-end for banks. 
This happens in many other major jurisdictions as well.7 Repo trading increases 
the size of a bank’s balance sheet and, in turn, its regulatory capital 
requirements. So as reporting dates approach, banks try to reduce their balance 
sheet to satisfy regulatory requirements. This tends to make them less willing to 
conduct repo transactions with clients and cash desks, due to the impact that 
repo deals have on their books. And that reluctance reduces the supply of repo 
funding to the market and can cause or amplify upward pressures on repo rates. 
Our analysis also finds that the Bank’s routine overnight repo operations, where 
we inject funds into the market to ease upward pressure on overnight repo rates, 
can at times be less effective in these periods. This is because sourcing liquidity 
around reporting dates in the inter-dealer broker (IDB) market can be a better 
deal for banks and other intermediaries than getting it through our repo 
operations. Repo trading via IDBs offers netting benefits provided by central 
clearing, which lowers the amount of equity capital required for trades done in the 
IDB segment of the repo market. That is especially useful for intermediaries 
around reporting periods.  
As always, we will continue to monitor all of these repo market dynamics.  
Conclusion 
It’s time to wrap up.  
It’s been a long road—almost three years since we began QT—but we are just 
about finished the QT process and the unwinding of our QE-related asset 
holdings. We will announce the end of QT in the first half of this year, and we will 
re-start business-as-usual asset purchases after it ends.  
When QT is done, we’ll go back to managing the balance sheet in a way that 
looks a lot like how we managed it before the pandemic. Crucially, when we start 
buying assets, these will be normal, passive purchases, reflecting the growth in 
 
5 See B. Plong and N. Maru, “What has been putting upward pressure on CORRA?” Bank of 
Canada Staff Analytical Note No. 2024-4 (March 2024). CORRA (the Canadian Overnight Repo 
Rate Average) measures the cost of overnight general collateral funding in Canadian dollars 
using GoC treasury bills and bonds as collateral for repurchase transactions. Making sure 
overnight rates are at or close to the target for the overnight rate that we set for monetary policy is 
how we ensure that borrowing and lending conditions in the economy reflect our policy stance.  
6 See B. Plong and N. Maru, “CORRA: Explaining the rise in volumes and resulting upward 
pressure,” Bank of Canada Staff Analytical Note No. 2024-21 (August 2024). 
7 See, for example, R. Perli, “Facing Quarter-End Pressures: Understanding the Repo Market and 
Federal Reserve Tools” (speech to New York University’s Stern School of Business, New York, 
November 12, 2024). 
===== PAGE 10 =====
 
 
- 10 - 
currency—not QE. 
However, because payments and the broader financial system have evolved, our 
approach to balance sheet management has also evolved. This is reflected in our 
shift to a floor system for implementing our monetary policy, which means we 
need to supply an amount of settlement balances that roughly matches the 
demand for them. And that demand is now estimated to be higher than where we 
thought it would be when I spoke about our QT process last year.  
Over the longer term, since the financial system will continue to evolve, demand 
for settlement balances can be expected to evolve too.  
Market participants can count on us to communicate our next steps clearly and 
ahead of time. And all Canadians can count on us to manage our balance sheet 
in a way that both lets us achieve our monetary policy mandate and promotes a 
stable and efficient financial system. Thank you. 