
===== PAGE 1 =====
Finance and Economics Discussion Series
Divisions of Research & Statistics and Monetary Aﬀairs
Federal Reserve Board, Washington, D.C.
The Fed’s “Ample-Reserves” Approach to Implementing
Monetary Policy
Ihrig, Senyuz, and Weinbach
2020-022
Please cite this paper as:
Ihrig, Jane, and Zeynep Senyuz, Gretchen Weinbach (2020). “The Fed’s “Ample-
Reserves” Approach to Implementing Monetary Policy ,” Finance and Economics Discus-
sion Series 2020-022. Washington: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
https://doi.org/10.17016/FEDS.2020.022.
NOTE: Staﬀ working papers in the Finance and Economics Discussion Series (FEDS) are preliminary
materials circulated to stimulate discussion and critical comment. The analysis and conclusions set forth
are those of the authors and do not indicate concurrence by other members of the research staﬀ or the
Board of Governors. References in publications to the Finance and Economics Discussion Series (other than
acknowledgement) should be cleared with the author(s) to protect the tentative character of these papers.
===== PAGE 2 =====
 
 
The Fed’s “Ample-Reserves” Approach to 
Implementing Monetary Policy  
 
 
Jane Ihrig, Zeynep Senyuz, and Gretchen C. Weinbach* 
 
 
February 19, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract 
We describe the Federal Reserve’s (the Fed’s) approach to imple menting monetary policy in an 
ample-reserves regime.  We use a stylized model to explain the factors the Fed considers and the 
tools it uses to ensure interest rate control when the quantity  of reserves is ample.  Then, we take 
a close look at the Fed’s experience operating in this regime in the post-crisis period, both as it has 
raised and lowered its policy rate.  Looking ahead, we highligh t some considerations relevant for 
maintaining a level of reserves consistent with the efficient a nd effective implementation of 
monetary policy, and conclude with an overview of the benefits of an ample-reserves regime. This 
primer is intended to enhance discussions and understanding of the Fed’s actions and 
communications regarding monetary policy implementation, as many resources on this topic may 
be out of date given the recent evolution of the policy environment. 
 
Keywords:  Monetary policy implementation, reserve balances, ample-reserves regime, 
administered rates, interest on reserves, open market operations 
JEL:  E58, E52, E43 
* Ihrig, Senyuz, and Weinbach are economists at the Federal Reserve Board.  Corresponding author:  Jane 
Ihrig; Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; 20th Street and Constitution, NW, Washington, 
DC 20551; 202-452-3372 (O); jane.e.ihrig@frb.gov.  Luke Morgan provided excellent research 
assistance.  We thank Kathryn Chen, Jim Clouse, Margaret DeBoer, Laura Lipscomb, Lorie Logan, Matt 
Malloy, Antoine Martin, John McGowan, Fabiola Ravazzolo, Julie Remache, Will Riordan, Sam 
Schulhofer-Wohl, and Patricia Zobel for their useful comments. 
 
Analysis and conclusions set forth in this paper are those of the authors and do not indicate 
concurrence by other members of the staff of the Federal Reserve Board.  
===== PAGE 3 =====
Page 2 of 40 
 
1. Introduction 
The Federal Open Market Committee’s (FOMC) primary means of achieving its dual 
mandate of maximum employment and stable prices is to set the target range for its policy rate—
the federal funds rate—and communicate any expected changes in the near-term path of that 
rate.1  Adjustments to the target range, when combined with careful policy communications and 
transparent policy strategy, transmit to other short-term interest rates and set off a chain of 
broader influences on financial conditions, making them more or less accommodative of 
economic growth.  But how does the Federal Reserve (the Fed) ensure that adjustments in the 
target range for its policy rate affect the market-determined federal funds rate and other short-
term rates?  It does so through careful attention to monetary policy implementation.           
In January 2019, the FOMC communicated its intention to continue implementing 
monetary policy in a regime with an ample supply of reserves.2  This decision was reached 
following more than a decade of successful policy implementation in an environment with 
plentiful reserves in the banking system.  In this regime, when the FOMC wants to adjust the 
stance of policy, it moves the target range for the federal funds rate up or down and 
communicates information about the range to the public.  To implement a corresponding change 
in market rates, the Fed adjusts its administered interest rates.  Together these steps affect the 
market-determined federal funds rate and other overnight market interest rates.   In contrast to 
the Fed’s previous implementation regime, in which the quantity of reserves was substantially 
less plentiful (and thus termed “limited,” or sometimes “scarce”), the Fed is not required to 
                                                             
1 The Federal Reserve Act directs the Board of Governors and the FOMC to conduct monetary policy “so as to 
promote effectively the goals of maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates.” 
Because long-term interest rates remain moderate in a stable economy with low expected inflation, this set of goals 
is often referred to as the “dual mandate” of maximum employment and price stability. 
2 The FOMC’s announcement may be found on the Federal Reserve Board’s web site at the following link:   
https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/monetary20190130c.htm.  
===== PAGE 4 =====
Page 3 of 40 
 
actively manage, or frequently adjust, the supply of reserves to maintain interest rate control.  
The ample-reserves regime provides good control of the federal funds rate in a simple and 
efficient manner and enables effective transmission of the stance of policy to broader financial 
markets.  Moreover, this regime has proven resilient to significant changes in the monetary and 
regulatory environments since the Global Financial Crisis of 2007-09.3   
In this paper, we describe the Fed’s “ample reserves” approach to implementing 
monetary policy, review its experience operating in this regime, and highlight some operational 
issues it may face on the path forward.  This information is intended to enhance discussions and 
understanding of the Fed’s actions and communications related to monetary policy 
implementation.  In particular, the material may be used to supplement textbooks and other 
existing learning materials that may be out of date in their descriptions of how the Fed 
implements monetary policy when reserve supply is considered ample.     
The rest of the paper proceeds as follows.  Using a stylized demand and supply 
framework, we begin in section 2 by describing the roles of banks and the Fed in influencing 
reserves.  We then describe how an “ample” quantity of reserves is determined and how the Fed 
controls the federal funds rate when the quantity of reserves is ample, including the basic 
mechanics of the tools the Fed uses in this operating regime.  In section 3, we take a close look at 
the Fed’s experience using this regime, and discuss the technical adjustments the Fed has 
implemented to ensure interest rate control.  Turning to section 4, we describe some operational 
considerations the Fed may encounter as it seeks to maintain an ample quantity of reserves over 
time.  Finally, section 5 concludes by highlighting the benefits of the FOMC’s chosen 
                                                             
3 For an overview of these changes and an analysis of their effects on money markets, see Klee, Senyuz, and Yoldas 
(2019). 
===== PAGE 5 =====
Page 4 of 40 
 
implementation regime and reminds the reader of some key takeaways about its use going 
forward. 
2. Policy implementation with ample reserves  
The Fed implements monetary policy with the aim of keeping the federal funds rate in the 
FOMC’s target range.4  The federal funds rate (FFR) is the interest rate at which depository 
institutions, or what we term “banks,” borrow reserves from and lend reserves to one another on 
an overnight basis to meet short-term funding needs.5  To understand how the Fed implements 
policy, it is easiest to consider a stylized model of the demand for and supply of reserves.   
2.1 Banks’ demand for reserves 
Banks may hold a portion of their cash in an account at the Fed; these funds are referred 
to as reserve balances, or reserves.  One can think of banks’ reserve accounts in much the same 
way as households’ checking accounts.  Just as individuals use the cash in their checking and 
other transactional accounts to facilitate their deposit and payment activities, banks use reserves 
in managing their liquidity needs.  Unlike other liquid assets, reserve balances are immediately 
available throughout the day to make payments for lending, securities settlement, meeting 
deposit outflows, and for other intermediation activities.   
There are many reasons for banks to demand reserves.  Before the crisis, banks’ demand 
was largely driven by the Fed’s reserve requirements and banks’ intraday payment needs.  
Today, a host of additional factors come into play.  First, the Fed now pays interest on reserves, 
                                                             
4 The Fed actually seeks to keep the daily “effective” FFR in the target range.  The effective FFR is the volume-
weighted median rate of all overnight federal funds transactions that occurred on a given day.  These data, published 
daily, may be found on the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s web site here:  
https://apps.newyorkfed.org/markets/autorates/fed%20funds.  
5 We use the term “banks” throughout to refer to depository institutions, which include commercial banks, savings 
banks, credit unions, thrift institutions, and most U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks.   
===== PAGE 6 =====
Page 5 of 40 
 
and so holding these balances has become more attractive.  Second, in response to the financial 
crisis, banks have enhanced their internal liquidity risk management practices, taking into 
account their individual business models and liquidity preferences, and reserves are useful for 
this purpose.  Third, banks may hold reserves to help meet several post-crisis regulatory liquidity 
standards created in part to enhance banks’ self-sufficiency in times of financial stress, such as 
resolution planning and the liquidity coverage ratio.  Finally, some changes in the federal funds 
market since the financial crisis have also boosted banks’ demand for reserves.  In particular, 
late-day trading conditions are less liquid and banks are more hesitant to tap intraday or other 
credit from the Fed.  Taken together, the mix of factors influencing banks’ demand for reserves 
today is complex and also likely to continue to evolve over time.6  
Figure 1 provides a stylized illustration of a demand curve for reserves.  This downward-
sloping curve has two portions.  The steep portion of the curve captures the idea that the higher 
the opportunity cost of holding reserve balances, the lower is banks’ demand.  Conversely, as the 
cost of overnight borrowing in the federal funds market falls, banks are generally inclined to hold 
more reserves to provide themselves with an extra liquidity cushion.  On this steep portion of the 
curve, banks’ demand is quite sensitive to changes in reserve supply; the rate at which these 
funds are traded, the federal funds rate, adjusts with even modest changes in reserve supply.  The 
demand curve also has a nearly flat, or flat, portion, located where the quantity of reserves in the 
banking system is significantly larger.  The transition from the steep portion of the curve to the 
nearly flat portion illustrates that as the quantity of reserves in the banking system increases, at 
                                                             
6 Beginning in September 2018, the Federal Reserve has periodically conducted a Senior Financial Officer Survey to 
ask individual banks about their reserve balance management practices, including the importance of various factors 
in driving their reserve demand.  In August 2019, banks responded that meeting routine intraday payment flows and 
satisfying internal liquidity stress metrics were very important factors in determining their demand for reserves.  A 
summary of the results of each survey is published on the Federal Reserve Board’s web site, available at the 
following link:  https://www.federalreserve.gov/data/sfos/sfos.htm.  In addition, Logan (2019a) discusses banks’ 
demand for reserves. 
===== PAGE 7 =====
Page 6 of 40 
 
some point, banks do not find much benefit from holding additional reserves other than earning 
the interest the Fed pays on these balances.  As a result, and as we’ll see below, the demand 
curve flattens out at a level that is close to the interest rate earned on reserve balances.  On the 
flat portion of the curve, banks’ demand is not sensitive to changes in reserve supply; the federal 
funds rate does not materially move when supply is adjusted either up or down.    
Figure 1  
Banks’ Demand for Reserves 
 
2.2 The Fed’s supply of reserves  
Many factors that affect the supply of reserves.  Some influences are independent of the 
Fed’s control, termed autonomous factors, and others are directly related to the Fed’s actions, 
termed open market operations.  Because the Fed understands how autonomous factors affect the 
supply of reserves, it can choose what operations to take, if any, in response.  As a result, one 
should think of the Fed as controlling the supply of reserves in the banking system.   

===== PAGE 8 =====
Page 7 of 40 
 
So what quantity of reserves must the Fed supply to be in an ample-reserves regime?  The 
term “ample” is fundamentally tied to the location of the Fed’s supply curve relative to banks’ 
demand curve.  In particular, to be ample, the Fed’s reserve supply must be positioned so that the 
equilibrium FFR does not materially change with movements in the quantity of reserves in the 
banking system.  This condition is met when the Fed’s supply curve intersects banks’ demand 
curve on the portion of the demand curve that is nearly flat.   
Figure 2 illustrates the Fed’s ample-reserves regime.  The red supply curves are vertical 
because the Fed controls the level of reserves.  To be in an ample reserves-regime, the quantity  
Figure 2 
The Fed’s Ample-Reserves Regime 
 
of reserves must be at least as large as the (stylized) quantity labeled “A”—reserve supply must 
fall in the gray shaded region.  In this region, any supply curve will intersect the demand curve at 
its relatively flat portion, meeting the condition for being in an ample regime.  While the quantity 
labeled “A” represents the minimum level of reserves needed to be in an ample-reserves regime, 

===== PAGE 9 =====
Page 8 of 40 
 
the quantity “B” represents a super plentiful amount of reserves, and one that is also consistent 
with being in an ample regime.   
An important takeaway from figure 2 is that the stylized gray region is very wide.  An 
ample-reserves regime functions well with a wide range of reserve levels in the banking system, 
such as a quantity near, or even greater than, vertical line “B,” as well as a quantity that is 
significantly smaller, such as closer to vertical line “A,” or with any reserve quantity in between.   
Over the past several years, the quantity of reserves supplied by the Fed has moved 
widely within this gray range.  During the period from late 2008 to late 2014, the Fed conducted 
a series of large-scale purchases of longer-term securities to put downward pressure on longer-
term interest rates in response to the Great Recession that severely weaken the U.S economy.  
When the Fed completed these purchases, reserves stood at a peak of $2.8 trillion, or 15 percent 
of U.S. nominal GDP.7  At this time, the vertical supply curve was essentially near “B,” a 
quantity sometimes referred to as “abundant” or “super abundant.”8  Then, as the economy 
recovered, the Fed took steps to reduce the supply of reserves.  Between late 2014 and August 
2019, reserves slowly declined, on balance, and at the end of this period, they stood near $1.5 
trillion, a quantity much closer to “A.”  So at what approximate quantity of reserves might the 
Fed prefer to operate in the long run?  
In January 2019, the FOMC announced its plans for implementing monetary policy over 
the longer run.  The Committee described its choice of implementation regime this way:9     
                                                             
7 A summary of the Fed’s purchase programs may be found on the Federal Reserve Board’s web site at this link:  
https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/bst_openmarketops.htm.  In addition, see Bernanke (2012) for a 
broader discussion of the Fed’s response to the crisis.  
8 See Yellen (2017) for a discussion of the role of reserves in the policy implementation framework, both when 
reserves were relatively limited and when they were characterized as abundant.      
9 The FOMC’s announcement may be found on the Federal Reserve Board’s web site at the following link:   
https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/monetary20190130c.htm.  
===== PAGE 10 =====
Page 9 of 40 
 
 
 
 
With this announcement, the Committee communicated that it will not return to its pre-crisis 
implementation regime.  In that limited-reserves regime, the Fed supplied an amount of reserves 
well to the left of vertical line “A” in figure 2; it operated on the steep portion of banks’ demand 
curve where even modest changes in the supply of reserves affect the equilibrium level of the 
FFR.  In addition, characterizing the desired supply of reserves as “ample” signaled that the 
Committee does not want to operate in the long run with a super plentiful amount of reserves, 
such as one depicted as being closer to vertical line “B.”  This indication is also tied to the 
Committee’s previously stated intention that the Fed will, in the longer run, hold no more 
securities than necessary to implement monetary policy efficiently and effectively.
10  Thus, 
taking the pieces together, the Committee’s announcement indicated that, going forward, the Fed 
will keep supplying a quantity of reserves in the gray region, and that the quantity will be closer 
to the vertical line labeled “A” than “B.”  With this framing, we now turn to how the Fed 
controls the FFR when the quantity of reserves in the banking system is in the gray region.     
2.3 Rate control tools  
 When implementing monetary policy in an ample-reserves regime,  the Fed primarily 
relies on its administered interest rates to keep the FFR within its target range.  But it also 
                                                             
10 Holding other parts of the Fed’s balance sheet constant, an increase (decrease) in securities will increase 
(decrease) reserves.  So a statement about “holding no more securities than necessary” is also saying the Fed plans 
to hold no more reserves than necessary to implement policy efficiently and effectively.  Information about the 
Federal Reserve’s Policy Normalization Principles and Plans is summarized on the Federal Reserve Board’s web 
site at the following link:  https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/policy-normalization-discussions-
communications-history.htm. 
The Committee intends to continue to implement monetary policy in a regime 
in which an ample supply of reserves ensures that control over the level of the 
federal funds rate and other short-term interest rates is exercised primarily 
through the setting of the Federal Reserve's administered rates, and in which 
active management of the supply of reserves is not required. 
===== PAGE 11 =====
Page 10 of 40 
 
periodically needs to adjust the quantity of reserves in the banking system, using open market 
operations, to maintain an ample supply.  We describe each of these rate control tactics in turn.   
Administered rates 
Administered rates are standing interest rates the Fed sets, or administers.  Currently, the 
Fed predominantly relies on two such interest rates.  Each rate is available to a specific set of 
counterparties on particular cash deposits held at the Fed.  The counterparties can decide if they 
want to deposit their cash at the Fed and earn the relevant standing rate or lend it instead to 
another market participant at a negotiated rate in one of the various money markets for cash.  
One can think of the Fed’s administered rates as reservation rates—they set a lower bar on the 
return a counterparty is willing to accept from others in money markets.  Hence, movements in 
the Fed’s administered rates directly help steer money market interest rates.   
The Fed’s key administered rate is the interest on reserves (IOR) rate, the rate that banks 
earn from the Fed on the funds they deposit in their reserve accounts.11  When choosing whether 
to hold some cash in their accounts at the Fed and earn the IOR rate or invest the cash in another 
money market instrument, such as Treasury bills, banks mainly consider their liquidity needs and 
the relative returns available on alternative investments.  With the payment of IOR, banks have 
little or no incentive to lend reserves at rates lower than IOR, which is reflected in the flattening 
out of banks’ reserve demand curve near the IOR rate (see figure 2).  In this sense, the IOR rate 
acts as a reservation rate in banks’ intermediation activities, helping to establish a minimum, or a 
                                                             
11 Technically, the Fed pays interest on two different components of reserves—required reserves, tied to the Fed’s 
reserve requirements as specified in Regulation D, and excess reserves, balances that are above the level of reserves 
banks are required by the Fed to hold.  Under authority from Congress granted in the Financial Services Regulatory 
Relief Act of 2006 and the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Board of Governors directed the 
Federal Reserve Banks to pay interest on required reserve balances and on excess balances, and these two rates are 
currently set equal.  For simplicity, we use “IOR rate” to refer to the single rate at which the Federal Reserve Banks 
pay interest on all reserve balances.   
===== PAGE 12 =====
Page 11 of 40 
 
floor, under the various overnight market returns that banks consider.  In addition, as long as the 
supply of reserves remains ample, banks should compete with each other so that lending in the 
federal funds market occurs at rates that are never too far above the IOR rate.  As a result, in an 
ample reserves regime, the FFR is expected to trade near the IOR rate.  While it can be modestly 
above or below the IOR rate depending on seasonal factors and market conditions, the incentives 
described above combine to prevent the FFR from drifting away from the IOR rate.  Because of 
the close linkage between the IOR rate and the FFR, the IOR rate is the Fed’s primary tool of 
policy implementation—for keeping the FFR in its target range.     
In addition to banks, various nonbank institutions actively participate in U.S. money 
markets, and these institutions are not eligible to earn IOR.  For example, government-sponsored 
enterprises account for the majority of lending in the federal funds market since the financial 
crisis, and they often lend excess cash at rates below IOR.  As a result, IOR by itself is unable to 
set a firm floor under the constellation of overnight money market rates.  To enhance its rate 
control, the Fed introduced a supplementary tool, the standing overnight reverse repurchase (ON 
RRP) facility, to influence the interest rates at which nonbanks lend cash in money markets.  The 
Fed began testing this form of open market operation in September 2013 and employed the 
facility when the FOMC first raised interest rates following the crisis in December 2015.12   
The FOMC sets the facility’s offering rate (ON RRP rate), the maximum interest rate the 
Fed is willing to pay in an ON RRP transaction.13  Figure 3 illustrates a reverse repurchase 
                                                             
12 The Fed introduced the ON RRP facility in September 2013 and conducted test operations through late 2015.  In 
September 2014, the FOMC indicated that it intended to use the facility as needed to help control the federal funds 
rate.  For more information, see the Federal Reserve Board’s and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s web sites 
at these links, respectively:  https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/overnight-reverse-repurchase-
agreements.htm; https://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/rrp_faq.html.  
13 The interest rate a counterparty receives is the facility’s offering rate except in the highly unlikely event that the 
amount of propositions the Fed receives exceeds the amount of securities available for the operation.  In that case, 
the interest rate would be determined by an auction process conducted by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as 
described in the FAQs available at the following link:  https://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/rrp_faq.html.    
===== PAGE 13 =====
Page 12 of 40 
 
agreement (or reverse repo, or RRP) transaction between the Fed and one of its counterparties, 
and notes its effect on reserves.  In the first leg of the transaction, the counterparty deposits its 
cash in the Fed’s ON RRP facility and the Fed recognizes that some of its Treasury securities are 
temporarily sold to the counterparty.  With this step, reserve supply declines by the amount of 
cash deposited in the Fed’s facility.  On the second day, or leg 2, the transaction is unwound, 
with the Fed returning to the counterparty their cash deposit plus interest earned, and with the 
interest tied to the ON RRP transaction rate.  In addition, the temporary sale of the Treasury 
securities is unwound, and reserve supply increases.  Given the nature of this transaction, take-up 
of the Fed’s ON RRPs constitutes a type of open market operation.   
Figure 3 
Illustration of a Reverse Repo (RRP) Transaction 
 
The ON RRP facility is available to about 130 counterparties.  Many of these 
counterparties, including money market funds, government-sponsored enterprises, in addition to 
banks, are very active in money markets.14  Because of the possibility of doing reverse repo with 
the Fed at its standing offering rate, these market participants have little incentive to lend cash to 
                                                             
14 For more on how the ON RRP facility complements the use of IOR and helps control short-term interest rates, 
including some issues the Fed considered in its design, see Frost et al. (2015). 

===== PAGE 14 =====
Page 13 of 40 
 
others at a lower rate.  Thus, for these counterparties, the ON RRP facility’s offering rate plays a 
role similar to that of the IOR rate for banks—the ON RRP rate acts as a reservation rate in 
money market investment and cash management decisions, helping to put a floor under the 
various overnight market rates that these institutions consider, regardless of whether these 
counterparties actually use the Fed’s facility on any given day or not.  So while it’s true that 
when take-up at the ON RRP facility rises, reserves decline (all else equal), the primary purpose 
of the facility is not to adjust reserve supply but to directly influence short-term interest rates 
faced by nonbanks.     
Figure 4 illustrates how the Fed’s IOR and ON RRP rates act as reservation rates for the 
Fed’s counterparties—providing standing options for a range of money market participants when 
they consider investing their cash in various money market instruments or with the Fed.     
Figure 4 
The Fed’s Administered Rates act as Reservation Rates 
 

===== PAGE 15 =====
Page 14 of 40 
 
The Fed adjusts these administered rates in concert with changes in the target range for its policy 
rate, and its counterparties use the new levels of these reservation rates in their evaluation of 
where to invest cash.  This dynamic allows the Fed to achieve the FOMC’s desired stance of 
policy.15  And, importantly, this approach to interest rate control does not require the Fed to 
frequently adjust the quantity of reserves in the banking system.  But how does the Fed ensure 
the quantity of reserves remains ample over time? 
Open market operations (OMOs) 
Open market operations, or OMOs—purchasing or selling securities in the open 
market—are a long-standing tool of policy implementation.  This tool is currently used in two 
different ways.  As we noted above, for the past several years the Fed has been using an ON RRP 
facility designed to directly influence short-term interest rates.  In addition, for decades, the Fed 
has used OMOs to alter the quantity of reserves it supplies—to purposefully expand or contract 
the amount of reserves in the banking system.16  The latter type of OMOs, designed to adjust 
reserve quantities, is specifically used by the Fed to maintain an ample level of reserves in the 
banking system.  As discussed above, to be in an ample-reserves regime, the Fed needs to 
maintain a quantity of reserves that is in the gray shaded region in figure 2, one that is at least as 
large as the (stylized) quantity “A.”  And, in so doing, the Fed must account for the effects of 
autonomous factors on the supply of reserves.   
 As noted in section 2.2, the Fed monitors several autonomous f actors.  Highlighted in 
Table 1, these factors are liabilities of the Fed other than reserves and include currency in 
                                                             
15 Some erroneously refer to the Fed’s ample-reserves implementation regime as a “corridor” regime.  The Fed’s 
ample-reserves regime is a “floor” regime with two floor, or deposit rates:  one for banks (the IOR rate) and one 
primarily for nonbanks (the ON RRP rate).  The fact that the Fed may set the IOR rate a bit above the ON RRP rate 
does not reflect an intention to create a rate corridor.   
16 For more information on how various OMOs affect reserves, see Ihrig, Mize, and Weinbach (2017).   
===== PAGE 16 =====
Page 15 of 40 
 
circulation, the Treasury’s cash account, or General Account, at the Fed (the TGA), and 
outstanding reverse repo agreements (the latter includes the Fed’s foreign repurchase pool and 
balances at the ON RRP facility).  Box 1 describes each of these non-reserve liabilities and their 
purpose.  Here we describe how these factors intersect policy implementation.   
Table 1 
The Fed’s Liabilities:  Autonomous Factors Highlighted 
Fed Liability Item Amount* 
($ billions) 
Currency in circulation 1,748 
Reserve Balances 1,695 
U.S. Treasury, General Account (TGA) 404 
Reverse repurchase agreements 224 
Other liabilities 73 
    * As of February 12, 2020. 
Source: Federal Reserve Board, H.4.1 statistical release. 
 
The levels of the Fed’s non-reserve liabilities move over time, exhibiting both long-run 
trend growth as well as short-run fluctuations.  For example, currency in circulation has grown 
on average about 6 percent a year, and the public’s demand often temporarily expands around 
holidays.  Each of these influences causes reserves to decline, all else equal.  In addition, 
Treasury’s account at the Fed fluctuates, sometimes substantially, including around corporate 
and personal tax payment dates; the movements cause aggregate reserves to fluctuate in 
response, in the opposite direction.  In general, reserves decline dollar-for-dollar when the Fed’s 
non-reserve liabilities increase, and vice versa.  The effects on reserves from changes in the 
===== PAGE 17 =====
Page 16 of 40 
 
autonomous factors reflect the fact that the activities associated with each of the Fed’s non-
reserve liabilities clear through reserve accounts at the Fed.17   
Does the Fed need to respond to the effects of changes in autonomous factors on 
reserves?  The answer is, sometimes.  When currency or another non-reserve liability grows, the 
Fed has to decide if it wants to offset the decline in reserves by purchasing securities in the open 
market.  The Fed will conduct a permanent OMO (buy securities and hold them to maturity) if it 
thinks the drain in reserves is permanent; it will conduct a temporary OMO (a repurchase 
agreement or repo) if it thinks the drain is temporary.18  Either of these actions will immediately 
expand the supply of reserves in the banking system, shifting any supply curve in figure 2 
rightward within the gray region.  Whether the Fed judges it needs to undertake one of these 
actions or not depends on the location of the original supply curve and the size of the effect on 
reserve supply relative to the quantity associated with the vertical line “A” in figure 2. 
The discount window and other tools 
The Fed also continues to administer several interest rates that it charges to banks for 
loans extended through its long-standing lending programs known collectively as the discount 
window.  The Fed typically adjusts these rates in sync with its other administered rates.  The 
main lending program is for primary credit—overnight loans extended to banks in generally 
sound financial condition.  The primary credit rate is typically set above the general level of 
                                                             
17 For example, when a bank requests currency for its customers, an armored truck comes to a regional Federal 
Reserve Bank, picks up the cash that was ordered, and delivers it to the requesting bank.  The Fed decreases the 
ordering bank’s reserve account to take payment for the cash.  (These steps are similar to those that occur when you 
go to your bank or an ATM for cash:  When you withdraw cash, your bank takes payment by debiting your bank 
account.)  
18 A repo (or RP) operation is the opposite of the RRP transaction shown in figure 3.  When the Fed conducts a repo, 
it lends cash to the market, temporarily purchases a security from an eligible counterparty, and agrees to sell the 
security back when the term of the contract ends, receiving the lent cash back plus interest when the transaction 
unwinds.  Each year, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York publishes an annual report of open market operations 
conducted during the previous year, available at the following link: 
https://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/annual_reports.    
===== PAGE 18 =====
Page 17 of 40 
 
short-term interest rates.  This rate is depicted in figure 2 as the intercept of the demand curve on 
the y-axis because banks should be unwilling to buy reserves at market rates that are much, if 
any, above the rate they can pay to borrow from the Fed.  In that sense, the discount window 
provides a backup source of funding for banks, with pricing that is intended to discourage 
frequent borrowing while still providing a ceiling on short-term market rates.  However, for 
many years, banks have demonstrated reluctance to use the discount window out of concern that 
borrowing from the central bank sends negative signals about their financial condition, a 
dynamic typically referred to as the stigma associated with the use of the discount window.  The 
Fed also maintains other policy implementation tools, ones that are less frequently relied upon.19    
3. How has policy implementation worked with ample reserves? 
The Fed has accumulated a lot of experience implementing policy with a sizable level of 
reserves.  Here we take a look at the Fed’s experience using an ample-reserves regime, including 
how the Fed has adjusted its tools to maintain the FFR in the FOMC’s target range. 
3.1 Transmission of the policy rate to other interest rates 
Figure 5 illustrates the movements in the Fed’s administered rates and selected overnight 
money market rates over the most recent period of ups (panel A) and downs (panel B) in the 
target range, shown by the gray shaded regions.  The IOR and ON RRP rates are shown by the 
dotted and dashed black lines, respectively.  The blue solid line shows the (effective) federal 
funds rate, and the red dash-dotted line shows the secured overnight financing rate, or SOFR, 
which is a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight when collateralized by  
Treasury securities.  Panel A begins with the first step in the Fed’s process of normalizing the 
 
stance of monetary policy after the Great Recession.  Specifically, in December 2015, after seven  
                                                             
19 A summary of all of the Fed’s policy tools can be found on the Federal Reserve Board’s website.  
https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/policytools.htm. 
===== PAGE 19 =====
Page 18 of 40 
 
Figure 5 
Policy Rate Pass-through to Selected Overnight Money Market Rates 
Panel A:  Pass through of policy rate hikes   
 
Panel B:  Pass through of policy rate cuts 
 

===== PAGE 20 =====
Page 19 of 40 
 
years of keeping the fed funds rate near zero (in a range of 0 to ¼ percent), the FOMC increased 
its target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percent (25 basis points), to a range of ¼ to ½ 
percent.  At that time, the Fed’s key administered rates, the IOR and ON RRP rates, were set at 
the top (0.50 percent) and bottom (0.25 percent) of the target range, respectively.20  Immediately 
after the Fed increased both administered rates, a constellation of short-term market interest rates 
moved up simultaneously.  Since then, the FOMC increased the target range for the federal funds 
rate eight more times through the end of 2018.  Then, as shown in panel B, the FOMC reduced 
the target range three times in 2019 to cushion the economy from possible headwinds to 
economic growth.  With each of the FOMC’s decisions to move the target range up or down, the 
Fed adjusted its administered rates accordingly, and the federal funds rate and other short-term 
market rates followed suit.21   
One can see that the changes in the FFR and other short-term interest rates also passed 
through to longer-term interest rates.  For example, figure 6 plots three such rates.  The rate 
shown in solid green is the net yield on government money funds held by institutional investors, 
which reflects the weighted-average return on the underlying assets held, less fees charged, by 
the fund.  Also shown are rates on 3-month Treasury bills (the purple dashed line) and AA-rated 
commercial paper of financial companies (the red dash-dotted line).  Each of these rates also 
moved with the changes in the FOMC’s target range.  In fact, these rates moved up and down a 
bit in anticipation of the Fed’s policy rate changes as term interest rates reflect not only 
prevailing overnight interest rates but also market participants' expectations for the level of 
                                                             
20 For a full discussion of how the Fed designed its tools to work at liftoff, see Ihrig, Meade, and Weinbach (2015). 
21 During the period shown, there were two days only when the daily effective FFR printed outside of the target 
range. On December 31, 2015, the effective FFR printed five basis points below the bottom of the target range and 
on September 17, 2019, it printed five basis point above the top of the target range. 
===== PAGE 21 =====
Page 20 of 40 
 
overnight rates in the future.22  When market participants expect the Fed to tighten or ease the 
stance of policy, term rates can rise or fall to some extent ahead of the FOMC’s actual decision. 
Figure 6 
Policy Rate Pass-through to Selected Longer-term Interest Rates 
 
Overall, the FOMC’s adjustments to the stance of policy have transmitted to a relatively 
broad set of market interest rates and influenced financial conditions, as well as consumers’ and 
businesses’ economic decisions.  These adjustments ultimately created conditions that have 
helped prolong the post-crisis economic expansion by fostering the achievement of both legs of 
the FOMC’s dual mandate.  
                                                             
22 For a more detailed account of how the first three post-crisis rate hikes were transmitted to other interest rates, see 
Anderson, Ihrig, Styczynski, and Weinbach (2017). 

===== PAGE 22 =====
Page 21 of 40 
 
3.2 Technical adjustments within the implementation regime 
As we just discussed, the FOMC has been successful in steering the federal funds rate up 
and down to reflect the desired stance of monetary policy, and those changes have transmitted to 
broader financial conditions.  Part of the Fed’s success in maintaining the FFR within the target 
range has been due to its flexibility in adjusting the parameters of its implementation tools as 
needed to support interest rate control.  These actions are purely technical measures to support 
the effective implementation of monetary policy; such actions do not represent a change in the 
stance of monetary policy.  In this subsection, we discuss two broad categories of technical 
adjustments that the Fed has made in response to evolving financial market conditions and as it 
has gained more experience with the current operating regime. 
Technical adjustments to the Fed’s administered rates   
A close look at either panel in figure 5 reveals that the position of the IOR rate (the dotted 
black line) relative to the top of the FOMC’s target range (the top of the shaded region) has not 
remained fixed.  At times, such as when pressures in short-term funding markets have emerged, 
the Fed has made technical adjustments to the setting of the IOR rate to help keep the FFR 
trading within the target range.  For example, in the spring of 2018, upward pressure on money 
market rates, including the effective FFR, materialized.  The pressure seemed to stem from a 
large increase in the net supply of Treasury bills, which pushed the yields on those securities 
higher and, with increased repo financing activity on the part of the bill holders, put some 
upward pressure on repo rates.  As a result, a constellation of short-term money market interest 
rates moved higher, the effective FFR increased within the target range, and money funds 
allocated their cash investments into higher-yielding Treasury bills and private repo instead of 
into the Fed’s ON RRP facility.  To ensure that the effective FFR remained well within the target 
===== PAGE 23 =====
Page 22 of 40 
 
range, the Fed made a small downward technical adjustment to the IOR rate, reducing it by 5 
basis points, to a level that was 5 basis points below the top of the target range.  This change was 
accomplished by implementing a 20-basis-point increase in the IOR rate at a time when the 
FOMC raised the target range by 25 basis points.   
The Fed made a few more technical adjustments to the IOR rate between 2018 and 2020.  
In 2018 and 2019, the Fed again lowered the IOR rate relative to the top of the target range.  And 
in September 2019, the Fed also simultaneously lowered the ON RRP rate, setting it 5 basis 
points below the bottom of the target range, keeping a spread between the IOR and the ON RRP 
rates of 10 basis points.  These small technical adjustments exerted downward pressure on the 
federal funds rate and other money market rates and fostered trading in the federal funds market 
at rates well within the target range.  The Fed has also made adjustments in the other direction.  
In January 2020, the Fed unwound its previous step, adjusting the IOR and ON RRP rates each 
higher by 5 basis points, to keep the FFR trading well within the target range.  These technical 
adjustments, all made within the ample-reserves regime, are used for policy implementation 
purposes only.23       
Technical adjustments to the supply of reserves   
Although active management of the supply of reserves is not, by design, a feature of an 
ample-reserves regime, there are times when the Desk may take steps, in accordance with the 
direction it receives from the FOMC, to adjust the supply of reserves in order to support interest 
rate control.  This step was taken in mid-September 2019 when strains in funding markets 
                                                             
23 The Fed publishes an Implementation Note after every FOMC meeting and any time implementation adjustments 
are made, available on the Federal Reserve Board’s web site (with other FOMC meeting documents) at the 
following link:  https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/fomccalendars.htm. 
===== PAGE 24 =====
Page 23 of 40 
 
emerged as quarterly corporate tax payments and the settlement of Treasury securities coincided 
and resulted in a large amount of cash being drained from money markets.24  In fact, reserve 
balances fell by more than $100 billion over just two days.  Although the drain in reserves 
associated with seasonal tax payments was expected to put some upward pressure on money 
market rates, the increases in rates that materialized were exceptionally large by historical 
standards.  As shown in panel B of figure 5, the SOFR (red dash-dotted line) spiked and the 
effective FFR (blue solid line) moved 5 basis points above the target range.  The moves in each 
rate were much larger than those observed over the past few years.  (Box 2 presents an analysis 
of the relationship between changes in the quantity of reserves and the FFR and provides 
estimates of rate sensitivity at various reserve levels.)  In response to these market developments, 
and consistent with the directive from the FOMC to maintain the FFR in the FOMC’s target 
range, the Desk undertook OMOs to temporarily purchase securities to add reserves.  
Specifically, the Desk conducted repos to provide immediate liquidity to the market and help 
alleviate the funding strains, ensuring the FFR resumed trading within the target range.   
In addition, the FOMC judged that the prevailing level of reserve supply at that time may 
have been a bit too low to be consistent with operating in an ample-reserves regime.  
Accordingly, in early October 2019, the FOMC directed the Desk to maintain over time reserve 
balances at least as large as the level that had prevailed in “early September,” a time when there 
were no evident pressures in money markets, and instructed the Desk how to go about increasing 
reserve supply. Consistent with those instructions, the Desk announced further overnight and 
term repos (temporary OMOs) as well as reserve management purchases in the form of outright 
                                                             
24 See Anbil, Anderson, and Senyuz (forthcoming 2020) for an overview of money market events in September 
2019, including a more detailed discussion of the factors that contributed to the strains that emerged in the repo 
market. 
===== PAGE 25 =====
Page 24 of 40 
 
purchases (permanent OMOs) of Treasury bills at a pace of about $60 billion per month at least 
into the second quarter of 2020.  The Committee explicitly noted that these bill purchases were 
purely a technical measure to increase reserve levels and support the effectiveness of monetary 
policy implementation.25  Figure 7 shows the composition of these reserve management OMOs, 
which totaled several hundred billion dollars as of February 2020.  
Figure 7 
          The Fed’s Reserve Management OMOs in 2019-2020 
 
Looking ahead, once reserve balances are judged to be sufficiently high, the need for 
sizable Treasury bill purchases will diminish, and the Fed will likely scale back or phase out its 
repo operations.26  At that time, the Fed will be in position to conduct OMOs over time solely to 
                                                             
25 See the FOMC’s October 2019 “Statement Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation,” available at this link:  
https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/files/monetary20191011a1.pdf.  Logan (2019b) reviews money 
market developments over the year and also discusses these particular open market operations. 
26 For a discussion of FOMC participants’ views on this issue, see the minutes to the January 2020 FOMC minutes, 
available at the following link:  https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/monetary20200219a.htm.   

===== PAGE 26 =====
Page 25 of 40 
 
accommodate trend growth in autonomous factors to maintain an ample level of reserves, a 
discussion we take up in the next section.    
4. Maintaining ample reserves   
Looking ahead, the Fed will seek to stay in an ample-reserves regime by supplying a 
quantity of reserves that is consistently ample, avoiding the need to actively manage the supply 
of reserves.  To do so, the Fed will continue to be vigilant in monitoring various factors that 
could potentially affect the level or variability of reserves, continue to gain more information 
about banks’ evolving demand for reserves, and remain ready to respond if the need arises.  Here 
we discuss some considerations that might arise in maintaining an ample reserves-regime.  Note 
that our discussion of these issues is intended to be illustrative, not exhaustive.   
4.1 Evolution of autonomous factors 
As we discussed in section 2.3, autonomous factors include currency, the Treasury’s 
General Account (TGA), reverse repos, and other Fed liabilities that are directly linked, 
operationally, with the supply of reserves.  As the level of these factors increase or decrease, they 
drain or add reserves, shifting the Fed’s supply curve left or right, respectively.   
Equation 1 shows how the Fed’s supply of reserves, R, evolves over time:  
                       ௧                                         (1) 
The equation captures the fact that today’s level of reserves will be equal to yesterday’s quantity 
in the absence of any changes in autonomous factors (AF) or OMOs.27  But, as shown in Figure 
                                                             
27 In this equation, “OMOs” are defined as the aggregate net addition to reserves from these operations (any reverse 
repos would be accounted for with a negative sign). 
===== PAGE 27 =====
Page 26 of 40 
 
8, autonomous factors exhibit substantial fluctuations in the short run and also grow over time.  
Moreover, the degree of variation in these factors can change over time; each of the factors 
exhibits more variability now than prior to the crisis.  This pattern is particularly true for the 
TGA, the most volatile factor (the solid red line).  Taken together, over the past few years, the 
weekly swings in the factors suggest that, at the extreme, they can jointly change by about $200 
billion from one week to the next.  
 
Figure 8 
Selected Fed Non-Reserve Liabilities 
 
The Fed needs to consider these short-run movements in autonomous factors in ensuring 
its supply of reserves remains ample.  In particular, the variability of the autonomous factors 
influences the Fed’s judgment about the practical location of the vertical line “A” in figure 2—
the minimum quantity of reserves that constitutes being in an ample-reserves regime.  So what is 

===== PAGE 28 =====
Page 27 of 40 
 
the Fed’s desired minimum level of reserves?  When asked about this topic, Chair Powell replied 
with a detailed response that is linked to our discussion.28  
 
 
 
 
 
In other words, in setting the quantity “A,” the Fed explicitly accounts for the short-run 
variability in autonomous factors.  The Fed sets “A” large enough to stay consistently in an 
ample reserves-regime, even when autonomous factors occasionally cause a very large drain in 
reserves.  And, given that the behavior of the autonomous factors could evolve over time, the 
Fed’s view of the location of “A” could change going forward.  
In addition to daily fluctuations in autonomous factors, the Fed also needs to consider 
their long-run growth in ensuring its supply of reserves remains ample, that is, at least as large as 
a given quantity “A.”  As shown in figure 8, currency (the purple dash-dotted line), trends up 
over time.  As noted above, currency has expanded an average of about 6 percent per year, and 
with more than $1.5 trillion of currency in circulation, such growth amounts to a large nominal 
increase each year.29  The TGA has also grown over the past decade, and the size of this account 
                                                             
28 See the transcript of Chair Powell’s January 2020 press conference, available on the Federal Reserve Board’s web 
site at the following link:  https://www.federalreserve.gov/mediacenter/files/FOMCpresconf20200129.pdf.   
29 For example, currency in circulation has nearly doubled over the past decade, expanding from about $985 billion 
at the end of 2010 to about $1.7 trillion in February 2020.  This means that the Fed’s balance sheet would have 
expanded by more than $700 billion over that period regardless of any other factors.  Data on currency in circulation 
are available on the Federal Reserve Board’s web site at the following link:  
https://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h6/. 
“… in terms of the actually desired reserve level, we know that reserves will continue 
to move up and down over the course of the calendar year in a wide range 
depending on volatility in non‐reserve liabilities, particularly the Treasury General 
Account, or TGA.  In particular, reserve levels will need to be at a level high enough 
to remain ample even when the TGA peaks during the April tax season.  Effectively, 
what that means is that we need reserves at all times to be no lower than they were 
in early September [2019]—and, I would say, around $1½ trillion, subject to learning 
more.  … So, most of the time, reserves will be moving in a range substantially 
higher than that but not going below $1½ trillion.”   
===== PAGE 29 =====
Page 28 of 40 
 
could continue to expand as the nominal value of payment flows managed by the Treasury 
increases over time.  Overall, the long-term growth of these autonomous factors will slowly, but 
permanently, drain reserves.  This reserve-draining effect is illustrated in figure 9, with the 
leftward shift in the supply curve, from S0 to S1.  
Figure 9 
Reserve Supply is Drained by an Expansion of Autonomous Factors 
 
 
 
To offset the reserve-draining effect of trend growth in its non-reserve liabilities, the Fed 
will, over time, need to regularly conduct permanent OMOs (reserve management purchases) to 
inject reserves into the banking system and shift the supply curve back to the right.  For example, 
if the Fed estimates that its non-reserve liabilities will grow by $10 billion a month, it would 
need to purchase $10 billion of Treasury securities each month to offset the reserve-draining 
effects of this growth.  These OMOs will be necessary over time to keep the quantity of reserves 
ample.  

===== PAGE 30 =====
Page 29 of 40 
 
4.2 Other factors  
Unlike the autonomous factors that are known to affect the supply of reserves each day, 
other, less certain, factors may change the supply of or demand for reserves over time.  And, of 
course, still other factors may one day need to be taken into consideration that are not yet 
conceived today.  Here we provide a couple of examples of such potential factors for illustrative 
purposes.  Given the uncertainty with which various factors may materialize, as well as their 
ultimate influence on the federal funds and other money markets, the Fed will need to stay 
vigilant in monitoring conditions in money markets going forward. 
We start by thinking about factors that could affect the demand for reserves.  First, 
consider a development that significantly reduces banks’ demand for reserves.  For example, a 
technological change could enable banks to speed the processing of payments and economize on 
cash, or the Fed could introduce a change to its existing policies or tools that lead banks to have a 
greater preference for investing in non-reserve liquid assets.  In this situation, the Fed’s existing 
supply of reserves would still be ample.  Next, consider the opposite case, a development that 
results in a marked increase in banks’ demand for reserves.  For example, banks’ preference for 
holding reserves could shift higher as a result of new or persistently heightened perceptions of 
liquidity risks.  In this situation, the Fed could need to take action to ensure the quantity of 
reserves it supplies remains ample. 
Figure 10 illustrates a rightward shift in the demand curve, from D0 to D1.  In this 
scenario, the vertical line “A” would move to the right along with the outward shift of the 
demand curve.  Would the Fed need to adjust its supply curve?  The answer is that it depends.  If 
supply was sufficiently to the right of “A” when that point shifts, the Fed’s current 
implementation regime would still work fine.  If instead reserve supply was close to “A” when 
===== PAGE 31 =====
Page 30 of 40 
 
that point shifts, the Fed would likely need to add some reserves to the banking system, by 
conducting OMOs in the form of permanent purchases of securities, to remain in an ample-
reserves regime relative to the new position of “A.”      
 
Figure 10 
Increase in Demand for Reserves in an Ample-Reserves Regime 
 
 
One can also conceive of considerations that could affect the Fed’s long-run supply of 
reserves.  One such consideration is the long-run implications of the current, low interest rate 
environment on reserve supply.  For some time now in the United States and in other advanced 
economies around the world, macroeconomic variables such as average inflation, output growth, 
and short- and longer-term interest rates have been persistently low relative to their longer-term 
historical norms.30  As a result, the Fed and many other central banks have been operating in  
                                                             
30 Many factors are contributing to the current macroeconomic environment—well-anchored inflation expectations 
in the context of improved monetary policy, aging demographics, increased globalization, slower productivity 

===== PAGE 32 =====
Page 31 of 40 
 
economic environments in which the policy rate is set relatively low.  If growth of the U.S. 
economy were to significantly slow, the FOMC would likely lower the policy rate, as usual, to 
provide stimulus to economy activity.  However, there is less room for the FOMC to provide 
stimulus to the economy by lowering the policy rate if the federal funds rate is already relatively 
low.  To provide additional policy accommodation in such circumstances, the FOMC would 
most likely need to employ large-scale asset purchases, as it did during the financial crisis and 
subsequent severe recession.  Regardless of its starting point, purchases of this size would shift 
the supply curve well to the right, closer to vertical line “B” in figure 2.  On balance in this 
situation, the current regime would seamlessly continue to work, providing the Fed a means of 
stable interest rate control as the FOMC provided needed economic stimulus to the economy.   
5. Concluding remarks 
The Fed is one of many central banks around the world that is implementing monetary 
policy with plentiful reserves.  In this primer, we provided a stylized framework to describe how 
a central bank implements policy in such a regime, including the specific tools the Fed uses to 
ensure interest rate control with ample reserves.  We reviewed the effectiveness of the regime 
over the past decade and discussed some operational considerations relevant for maintaining an 
ample supply of reserves going forward.   
Our discussion highlighted some of the Fed’s key motivations for choosing to operate in 
an ample-reserves regime in the long run.  First, as described in section 2, an ample-reserves 
regime is simple and efficient to operate.  While the Fed needs to manage reserve supply in any 
implementation regime, the ample-reserves regime eliminates the need for the Fed to intervene in 
                                                             
growth, greater demand for safe assets, and weaker links between unemployment and inflation.  And these factors 
seem likely to persist.  For more discussion of this issue, see Chair Powell’s speech on “Challenges for Monetary 
Policy,” available at the following link:  https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/speech/powell20190823a.htm.  
===== PAGE 33 =====
Page 32 of 40 
 
markets on a daily basis, which is an operationally attractive feature.  Second, as shown in 
section 3, the regime is effective.  The Fed’s administered rates have enabled successful control 
of the federal funds rate and its transmission to other short-term interest rates as well as to 
broader financial conditions, all of which support the FOMC’s achievement of its dual mandate.  
Third, as highlighted in section 3 and discussed in section 4, the regime has proven resilient to a 
variety of changes in the economic, financial, and regulatory environments, and is expected to 
stay so going forward.   
Finally, we emphasized that operating in an ample-reserves regime going forward, the 
Fed will periodically need to add reserves to the banking system to accommodate ongoing 
growth in its non-reserve liabilities, and also highlighted the importance of monitoring for 
developments that could necessitate a shift in the Fed’s assessment of the minimal quantity of 
reserves needed to stay in an ample-reserves regime.  Overall, the Fed will need to be vigilant in 
monitoring conditions that influence banks’ evolving reserve demand, the autonomous factors 
that affect reserve supply, and other dynamics that might shift reserve demand or supply as the 
economy and financial markets continue to evolve.         
 
      
   
  
===== PAGE 34 =====
Page 33 of 40 
 
Box 1 
The Fed’s Non-reserve Liabilities  
 
Many of the Fed’s liabilities arise from its statutory responsibilities, such as supplying 
currency to the public and serving as the U.S. Treasury’s fiscal agent.  Each liability has social 
benefits and plays an important role as a safe and liquid asset for the public, the banking system, 
the U.S. government, or other institutions.  Here we briefly describe each of the Fed’s primary 
non-reserve liabilities.31  A key point is that, taken together, the Fed’s non-reserve liabilities tend 
to increase over time.  This is because the Fed’s largest liability, currency, and to which we first 
turn, exhibits trend growth.   
Federal Reserve notes.  Federal Reserve notes outstanding—also known as (paper) currency in 
circulation, or simply currency, shown as the green region in the chart—have traditionally been 
the largest liability item on the Fed’s balance sheet.  The public’s demand for currency tends to 
increase with the nominal size of the economy because households and businesses have sought, 
collectively, to hold more cash as the volume of economic transactions grows.  In addition, with 
heavy usage of U.S. currency overseas, changes in global economic growth, as well as in 
financial and geopolitical stability, can also materially affect the rate of U.S. currency growth. 
Over the past decade, the amount of notes in circulation has almost doubled, from about $900 
billion in late 2009 to almost $1.8 trillion by early 2020. 
Treasury General Account (TGA).  The U.S. Treasury holds cash balances at the Fed in the 
TGA, shown by the blue region in the chart.  Treasury’s payments activity flows through this 
account—the account is used to collect tax payments and to receive the proceeds of Treasury’s 
securities sales, and it is used to pay the federal government's bills, including interest and 
principal on maturing Treasury securities.  Prior to 2008, the Treasury targeted a steady, low 
balance of $5 billion in the TGA on most days, and it used separate, private accounts at 
commercial banks to manage the bulk of its cash flows outside of the TGA.  Since 2008, the 
Treasury has used the TGA as its primary account for managing its cash flows.  In May 2015, the 
Treasury announced its intention to hold in the TGA a level of cash generally sufficient to cover 
                                                             
31 Data on the Fed’s assets and liabilities are published weekly on the Board’s H.4.1 statistical release, available at 
the following link:  https://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h41/.  
===== PAGE 35 =====
Page 34 of 40 
 
one week of outflows, subject to a minimum balance of roughly $150 billion.32  The rationale for 
this decision was to protect the resilience of government payments and to avoid potential 
concerns about the safety of U.S. government debt that could be damaging for the global 
financial system.  As of the end of 2019, the TGA stood above $300 billion.  
Foreign Repo Pool.  The Fed conducts overnight reverse repo with foreign official accounts, 
also known as the foreign repo pool and included in the yellow region of the chart, in order to 
provide an investment option for foreign official institutions.  The daily amount invested in the 
foreign repo pool has also increased in recent years.  The Fed has long offered this custodial 
service to foreign central banks, foreign governments, and international official institutions to 
facilitate immediate access to dollar liquidity to support their operational needs, to clear and 
settle securities in their accounts, or to address any unexpected dollar shortages.  The foreign 
repo pool has grown from an average level of around $30 billion before the crisis to a current 
average of about $250 billion, equivalent to a little more than 1 percent of GDP, reflecting in part 
foreign central banks' preference to maintain more substantial dollar liquidity buffers since the 
crisis.   
Figure 1.1 
The Fed’s Liabilities as a Share of Nominal GDP 
 
                                                             
32 Treasury’s press release containing this announcement may be found on its web site at the following link:  
https://www.treasury.gov/press-center/press-releases/Pages/jl0249.aspx.  

===== PAGE 36 =====
Page 35 of 40 
 
Other deposits.  Other deposits, also included in the yellow region of the chart, consist of 
balances held at the Fed by international and multilateral organizations as well as government-
sponsored enterprises.  This liability item also includes the accounts of Designated Financial 
Market Utilities (DFMUs) which provide the infrastructure for transferring, clearing, and settling 
payments, securities, and other transactions among financial institutions.  Other deposits have 
risen from less than $1 billion before the crisis to about [$80 billion] at the end of 2019, owing 
mainly to the establishment of accounts for DFMUs that have been designated as systemically 
important by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC).  
Overnight reverse repo (ON RRP) facility.  When the Fed’s eligible counterparties choose to 
take up ON RRPs at the Fed’s facility, the cash they deposit is logged as an increase in the Fed’s 
reverse repo liabilities; this item is also included in the yellow region of the chart.  Over the past 
half-decade, the outstanding amount of ON RRPs has ranged from $0 to more than $350 billion, 
largely depending on the relative positions of comparable money market interest rates and other 
conditions in money markets.     
  
===== PAGE 37 =====
Page 36 of 40 
 
Box 2 
The Relationship between the Federal Funds Rate and the Level of Reserves 
 
Theoretical models on the relationship between overnight interest rates and the level of 
aggregate reserve balances generally predict that as reserve balances decline, the level of 
overnight interest rates as well as their responsiveness to changes in the level of reserves 
increase; that is, the demand curve for reserves steepens.33  
Figure 2.1 plots the level of the spread between the effective federal funds rate (EFFR) 
and the interest on reserves (IOR) rate, the purple dashed line, and the level of reserves, the green 
solid line, from April 2018 to September 2019.  (This sample ends just prior to the volatility 
observed in money markets followed by the Fed’s repo operations to increase reserves.)  Starting 
in March 2018, a substantial increase in Treasury bill issuance pushed the yields on these 
securities as well as the constellation of money market rates higher.  As a result, as shown in the 
figure, the EFFR started to increase in the target range relative to the IOR rate, increasing the 
spread between the two.  During this time, reserve balances had also been declining gradually 
with the ongoing normalization of the Fed’s balance sheet and growth in the Fed’s non-reserve 
liabilities. The combination of the declining level of reserves and the increasing rate spread led 
some to speculate about a causal link between the two series—that a shrinking level of reserves 
could cause the EFFR to trade up relative to the IOR rate.  
To measure the sensitivity of the federal funds rate to the level of reserves we estimate 
the simple regression below: 
                 ௧                     (1.1)              
Our endogenous variable is the spread of the FFR to IOR rate to account for the effects of 
the FOMC’s changes in the target range as well as the effects of technical adjustments to the IOR 
rate.34  We drop month-end days from the sample to exclude the effects of regulatory reporting 
days when many money market borrowers scale down their positions to meet regulatory or 
                                                             
33 These models date back to the classic paper by Poole (1968).  More recent examples that incorporate aspects of 
current money markets structure include Schulhofer-Wohl and Clouse (2018) and Afonso, Armenter, Lester (2018). 
In addition, Potter (2018) provides a discussion of the dynamics between reserve levels and short-term rates. 
34 We use the volume-weighted average federal funds (VWA FF) rate, instead of the effective federal funds rate 
(EFFR), which is the volume-weighted median, since the volume-weighted mean rate has more variation than the 
median and captures all movements in the distribution.  The correlation of 5-day changes between the volume-
weighted mean and median rate is close to 1 and results are qualitatively similar when the EFFR is used.  
===== PAGE 38 =====
Page 37 of 40 
 
internal targets.  Note that equation (1.1) is specified in differences, rather than in levels, since 
the two series were trending during the time period considered.   
Figure 2.1 
EFFR-IOR Spread and Reserve Balances  
(April 2018 to September 2019) 
           
When we regress daily changes in the FFR-IOR spread on changes in reserve balances, 
we estimate the slope of the reserve demand curve, denoted by ߚWe allow this slope to vary 
with levels of reserves to identify points at which the demand curve becomes steeper—more 
interest sensitive—as reserves decline.  This is achieved by using a “threshold model” in which 
the threshold variable—the level of reserves—is used to estimate the slope at different regions of 
the reserve demand curve.  
Figure 2.2 shows point estimates of the slope coefficient, ߚthe black circles), and 95 
percent confidence bands (the red brackets) at different reserve levels using the thresholds 
determined by the model.  Moving from the right to the left in the figure, the slope coefficient is 
not significant for reserves levels above $2 trillion, but it becomes negative and statistically 
significant when reserves fall below $2 trillion.  The model identifies two thresholds, one at a 
reserves level of $2 trillion and another at a level of $1.6 trillion.  The FFR shows slight 
sensitivity to changes in reserves for reserves levels between $1.6 and $2 trillion—the FFR is 
expected to increase one-half a basis point per $100 billion decline in reserves.  The slope 

===== PAGE 39 =====
Page 38 of 40 
 
coefficient increases to just under 1 basis point when reserves were between $1.5 trillion and 
$1.6 trillion.  Reserves became consistently below $2 trillion in the third quarter of 2018, and 
reached levels around $1.6 trillion in early 2019.  
  
Figure 2.2 
Sensitivity of the Federal Funds Rate to the Level of Reserves 
 
Source: Authors’ calculations. 
Note: Black dashed lines show the estimated thresholds for reserve levels.  Red  
brackets show the 95 percent confidence bands around the point estimates, shown  
by the black circles. 
 
 
 
 

===== PAGE 40 =====
Page 39 of 40 
 
References 
Afonso, Gara, Roc Armenter, and Benjamin Lester (2018). “A Model of the Federal Funds 
Market: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow.” Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Reports, 
no.840. 
Anbil, Sriya, Alyssa Anderson, Zeynep Senyuz (2020). “What Happened in Money Markets in 
September 2019?,” forthcoming FEDS Notes, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System (U.S.). 
Anderson, Alyssa, Jane Ihrig, Mary-Frances Styczynski, and Gretchen C. Weinbach (2017). 
“How Have the Fed's Three Rate Hikes Passed Through to Selected Short-term Interest Rates?,” 
FEDS Notes 2017-06-02. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (U.S.). 
Bernanke, Ben S. (2012).  “Monetary Policy since the Onset of the Crisis.”  Remarks at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City Economic Symposium, Jackson Hole, Wyoming:   
https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/speech/bernanke20120831a.htm. 
Frost, Josh, Lorie Logan, Antoine Martin, Patrick McCabe, Fabio Natalucci, and Julie Remache, 
(2015). “Overnight RRP Operations as a Monetary Policy Tool: Some Design Considerations,” 
Finance and Economics Discussion Series 2015-010. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System (U.S.). 
Ihrig, Jane E., Ellen E. Meade, and Gretchen C. Weinbach (2015). "Rewriting Monetary Policy 
101: What's the Fed's Preferred Post-Crisis Approach to Raising Interest Rates?," Journal of 
Economic Perspectives, vol. 29, no. 4, pp.177-98. 
Ihrig, Jane E., Lawrence Mize, Gretchen C. Weinbach (2017). “How does the Fed adjust its 
Securities Holdings and Who is Affected?," Finance and Economics Discussion Series 2017-099. 
Washington: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
https://doi.org/10.17016/FEDS.2017.099.  
Klee, Elizabeth, Zeynep Senyuz, and Emre Yoldas (2019). "Effects of Changing Monetary and 
Regulatory Policy on Overnight Money Markets," International Journal of Central Banking, vol. 
15, no. 4, pp. 165-205. 
Logan, Lorie K. (2019a). “Observations on Implementing Monetary Policy in an Ample-
Reserves Regime,” Remarks before the Money Marketeers of New York University, New York 
City: https://www.newyorkfed.org/newsevents/speeches/2019/log190417.  
Logan, Lorie K. (2019b). “Money Market Developments: Views from the Desk.” Remarks at the 
Annual Primary Dealer Meeting, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, New York City: 
https://www.newyorkfed.org/newsevents/speeches/2019/log191104.html.  
Poole, William (1968). “Commercial Bank Reserve Management in a Stochastic Model: 
Implications for Monetary Policy,” The Journal of Finance, vol.23, no.5, pp. 769-791. 
===== PAGE 41 =====
Page 40 of 40 
 
Potter, Simon (2018). “U.S. Monetary Policy Normalization is Proceeding Smoothly,” Remarks 
at the China Finance 40 Forum-Euro 50 Group-CIGI Roundtable, Banque de France, Paris, 
France: https://www.newyorkfed.org/newsevents/speeches/2018/pot181026.  
Schulhofer-Wohl, Sam, and James Clouse (2018). “A Sequential Bargaining Model of the Fed 
Funds Market with Excess Reserves,” Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago working paper 2018-08. 
Yellen, Janet L. (2017). “A Challenging Decade and a Question for the Future.” Remarks at the 
2017 Herbert Stein Memorial Lecture, National Economists Club, Washington D.C.: 
https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/speech/files/yellen20171020a.pdf. 
 