
===== PAGE 1 =====
Staff Working Paper No. 1,090
August 2024
Quantitative easing and 
quantitative tightening:  
the money channel
Staff Working Papers describe research in progress by the author(s) and are published to elicit comments 
and to further debate. Any views expressed are solely those of the author(s) and so cannot be taken to 
represent those of the Bank of England or to state Bank of England policy. This paper should therefore 
not be reported as representing the views of the Bank of England or members of the Monetary Policy 
Committee, Financial Policy Committee or Prudential Regulation Committee.
Michael Kumhof and Mauricio Salgado-Moreno
===== PAGE 2 =====
Staff Working Paper No. 1,090
Quantitative easing and quantitative tightening:  
the money channel
Michael Kumhof(1) and Mauricio Salgado-Moreno(2) 
Abstract
We develop a DSGE model in which commercial banks interact with the central bank through 
the reserves market, with each other through reserves and interbank markets, and with 
the real economy through retail loan and deposit markets. Because banks disburse loans 
through deposit creation, they never face financing risks (being unable to fund new loans), 
only refinancing risks (being unable to settle net deposit withdrawals in reserves). Permanent 
quantitative tightening, while reducing the equilibrium real interest rate, has significant 
negative effects on financial and real variables, by increasing the cost at which  
reserves-scarce parts of the banking sector create money. Temporary net deposit 
withdrawals, which affect the funding cost and loan extension of one part of the banking 
sector at the expense of another part, have highly asymmetric financial and real effects. The 
quantity and distribution of central bank reserves, and the extent of frictions in the interbank 
and reserves markets, critically affect the size of these effects, and can matter even in a 
regime of ample aggregate reserves. Countercyclical reserve injections can help to smooth 
the business cycle. We find that countercyclical reserve quantity rules can make sizeable 
contributions to welfare that can reach a similar size to the Taylor rule.
Key words: Quantitative easing, quantitative tightening, monetary policy, central bank 
reserves, interbank loans, bank deposits, bank loans, money demand, money supply, credit 
creation.
JEL classification: E51, E52, E58.  
(1) Bank of England. Email: michael.kumhof@bankofengland.co.uk
(2) Bank of England. Email: mauricio.salgadomoreno@bankofengland.co.uk
Any views expressed are solely those of the authors and should not be taken to represent those of the  
Bank of England or of its policy committees. We have benefited from comments by Tim Boobier, Robert Czech, 
Robert Hills, Iryna Kaminska, Kunal Khairnar, Johanna Krenz, Ricardo Nunes, Alba Patozi, Huw Pill, Mo Wazzi, 
Tim Willems, and participants at University of Surrey and the RCEA conference.
===== PAGE 3 =====
The Bank’s working paper series can be found at www.bankofengland.co.uk/working-paper/staff-working-papers 
Bank of England, Threadneedle Street, London, EC2R 8AH  
Email: enquiries@bankofengland.co.uk 
©2024 Bank of England  
ISSN 1749-9135 (on-line)
===== PAGE 4 =====
1. Introduction
Since the 2008 Global Financial Crisis (GFC) central banks in advanced economies have relied
more frequently on “unconventional” balance-sheet policies. While these policies appear to have
been successful, it has remained difficult to disentangle the transmission mechanisms of the new
policy tools alongside traditional interest rate tools, including their effects on the business cycle
and equally importantly on financial stability. This has been a prominent topic among central
banks and international policymakers, 1 as some central banks that have started to reduce their
balance sheets have been forced to intervene in financial markets during acute liquidity shortages.
A prominent example is the US repo spike in September 2019. Furthermore, central banks are
currently considering policy tool combinations that navigate uncharted waters, such as interest
rates cuts during periods of falling central bank liquidity.
In the face of these uncertainties about the transmission mechanism, empirical analysis cannot
yet provide adequate guidance to policymakers, and more theoretical work on the transmission
mechanism is a necessary complement. This is what we attempt in this paper. We put particular
emphasis on the liability side of central bank balance sheets, specifically the nature of policy and
shock transmission through the reserve and interbank markets. We study the policies that have
become known as Quantitative Easing (QE) and Quantitative Tightening (QT), which transmit
directly only to the banking system, while their effect on the real economy depends on the response
of the banking system, specifically its credit and money creation. 2
We develop a medium-scale New-Keynesian DSGE model with both a fully specified real sector
and a detailed financial sector. Banks interact with the central bank through the reserves market,
with each other through reserves and interbank markets, and with the real economy through retail
loan and deposit markets. Our model reflects the reality that banks do not face financing risks, only
refinancing risks. Banks always finance new loans by creating new deposits, so that there is never a
risk of not being able to finance a new loan. But there is a risk of having to refinance lost deposits.
We emphasize that this notion of refinancing risk is very different to that in loanable funds models
of banking. Specifically, in loanable funds frameworks it is often argued that the two amount to the
same, because once a bank makes a new loan and creates the corresponding deposit, it will tend to
lose that deposit to another bank and will then need to refinance it. This however is a particularly
clear example of a partial equilibrium fallacy. The reason is that all banks continuously make large
numbers of new loans, and for a banking system where all banks expand or contract in lockstep,
a bank will tend to gain as many deposits as it loses in the above-mentioned manner, and only
the small difference remaining after netting deposit inflows and outflows will need to be refinanced,
if there is a shortfall, or lent out, if there is a surplus. The average bank will experience neither
1See, for example, Schnabel (2023), Logan (2023), Borio (2023) and Bailey (2024).
2See Busetto et al. (2022) for a list of potential QE and QT transmission channels.
1
===== PAGE 5 =====
shortfall nor surplus. 3 Furthermore, this risk is not related to lending per se, but to the preference
of depositors for deposits in different banks. For banks that expand or contract in lockstep, the
risk is therefore entirely on the liability side of their balance sheets. This risk can be mitigated if
there is a higher level of central bank reserves in the system, and the effect of injecting additional
reserves is greater the scarcer is the initial level and distribution of reserves.
We calibrate the model to US 2010-2019 data before studying its properties. Our steady
state calibration matches characteristics of the real economy, a number of interest rate spreads and
balance sheet ratios, and most importantly for this paper the empirically observed relationships
between the quantity of reserves and interest rate spreads in reserves and interbank markets.
We first show the effects of different reserve levels on the steady states of different variables.
When the central bank reduces the stock of aggregate reserves by selling part of the stock of gov-
ernment debt back to private bond investors, thereby increasing the risk premium on government
debt, the equilibrium policy rate nevertheless falls because a growing liquidity discount on reserves
dominates the increasing risk premium. At the same time, key financial and real variables dete-
riorate due to an increase in the cost at which especially the reserves-scarce parts of the banking
sector can create money. When the central bank reduces the stock of aggregate reserves to match
an equal-sized decrease in the aggregate stock of government bonds, we observe qualitatively similar
effects for most variables, but with significantly smaller output effects because the risk premium
on debt does not increase. Finally, we investigate the model’s steady state implications in terms
of the so-called iso-market rate curve of Vissing-Jorgensen (2023). That is, we calculate the steady
state (real) policy rate necessary to maintain a constant interbank target rate as a function of the
supply of reserves. We find that the distribution of central bank reserves, the interbank market
structure, and the relative importance of demand and supply schedules of interbank loans are key
determinants of the iso-market rate curve’s shape.
Next we study net deposit withdrawals , specifically changes in deposit demand that result in
withdrawals from the reserve-scarce part of the banking sector to to the reserve-abundant part, at
given levels of loan demand. These shocks capture modern bank runs where institutional investors,
rather than retail depositors, disproportionately flee to large liquidity-rich banks – for evidence
see Cipriani, Eisenbach and Kovner (2024). Such shocks have highly nonlinear and asymmetric
financial and real effects, by mainly affecting the cost of funding and deposit creation of reserve-
scarce banks. The quantity and distribution of central bank reserves, and the extent of frictions
in the reserves and interbank markets, critically affect the size of these effects, and can matter
even in a regime of ample aggregate reserves. Specifically, we find that a deposit withdrawal shock
that shifts deposits equal to 7.5% of GDP between two groups of banks has strong contractionary
effects, including a reduction in GDP of 0.7% and a drop in inflation of 45 basis points.
3Cipriani, Eisenbach and Kovner (2024) show, using confidential interbank daily US data, that the average bank’s
net payments are centered around zero, as their payments received and sent tend to cancel each other out.
2
===== PAGE 6 =====
Relatedly, asymmetric lending booms, where an aggressive group of banks expands its lending
much faster than the remaining banks, while the share of their deposits that non-banks wish to hold
in this group of banks does not change, can have qualitatively similar but quantitatively smaller
effects on the distribution of reserves. The reason is that the aggressive group of banks, while it
will not lose all of its newly created deposits, will no longer gain as many deposits as it loses, and
will thereby lose some reserves. Such shocks are expansionary at the aggregate level, because their
loss of reserves merely dampens but does not fully offset the increase in the willingness to create
money of the aggressive banks.
A temporary QT shock, calibrated to generate a maximum 6 percentage point decline in the
reserves-to-GDP ratio through central bank bond sales to non-bank bond investors, leads to a GDP
decline of approximately 0.25%, again by reserve scarcity driving up lending rates and the cost of
private credit and money creation.
For all other shocks , including conventional monetary policy shocks, the model behaves like a
conventional New Keynesian model, because such shocks do not significantly affect the distribution
of reserves across the banking system.
For each shock we also study the role of countercyclical reserve rules, whereby the central bank
injects additional reserves when interbank lending spreads deviate from their desired levels. We
find that such rules can have very sizeable benefits for economic stability and welfare.
Our model builds on the financing through money creation (FMC) framework first developed
in Jakab and Kumhof (2015), where banks interact with the real economy by creating deposits when
lending to the private sector. 4 We add to this ex-ante heterogeneity among banks. Specifically,
we allow for two groups of banks that have identical steady state net worth and loans levels,
but that differ in their deposit holdings and therefore also in their reserve holdings. The first
banking group, “B1 banks”, has a larger deposit base and also holds larger amounts of central
bank reserves, while the second banking group, “B2 banks” has both fewer deposits and fewer
reserves. Furthermore, in steady state B1 banks make interbank loans to B2 banks. We allow these
bank groups to interact with each other in reserves and interbank markets, which both feature
financial frictions. In the reserves market, due to a convex cost of liquidity scarcity, banks with
lower reserve levels relative to deposit levels are willing to pay higher interest rates on wholesale
deposits, and the interest differential between the two groups increases at an increasing rate in the
overall and relative scarcity of reserves. In the interbank market, banks with higher reserve levels
are lenders, but due to a convex cost of large counterparty exposures the interest rate on interbank
loans increases at an increasing rate in the level of interbank loans, which in turn increase in the
overall and relative scarcity of reserves.
4For a detailed literature review on the differences between the intermediation of loanable funds (ILF) model and
the FMC framework used here, see Jakab and Kumhof (2019). See also Kumhof and Wang (2021).
3
===== PAGE 7 =====
We model unconventional balance sheet policies (QT or QE) via central bank sales or purchases
of bonds to or from non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs), which is close to how central banks
have in reality implemented such policies. This is an important and distinctive feature, because
under an approach that is commonly used in the literature (see below) the central bank provides
direct credit to the real economy, while in our approach an expansion of the central bank’s balance
sheet has a direct effect only on NBFIs and banks, and only banks interact with the real economy.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the literature. Section 3
develops the model, and Section 4 presents its calibration. Section 5 performs comparative statics
across steady states that differ by the quantity of reserves and the quantity of government bonds.
Section 6 studies the effects on real and financial stability of both conventional and unconventional
monetary policies by way of impulse responses to selected shocks. Section 7 performs a preliminary
welfare analysis based on calibrated parameters and shock standard errors. Section 8 concludes.
2. Literature
Our paper contributes to a growing literature that analyzes the central bank’s balance sheet
as a monetary policy tool. Within this literature, several studies have investigated the effects of
QE policies using modern Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium (DSGE) models. Most of these
studies have focused primarily on the effects related to the portfolio of assets that the central bank
acquires through QE policies, rather than on the liquidity created on the central bank’s liability side
and its implications for money markets. For example, Chen et al. (2012), building on the approach
by Andres, Lopez-Salido and Nelson (2004), introduce bond market segmentation into a standard
medium-scale New-Keynesian model with transaction cost frictions to investigate the role of large-
scale asset purchases (LSAPs). Their framework does not feature banks or NBFIs that interact
with the central bank, monetary policy is limited to a standard interest rate rule, and LSAPs are
exogenous shocks to the fiscal authority’s supply of long-term bonds. Gertler and Karadi (2012)
investigate QE in a loanable funds model where private intermediaries face borrowing constraints.
They show that central bank policies that alleviate intermediaries’ incentive constraints can have
significant macroeconomic effects by affecting the price of capital. QE in their model is akin to
a central bank credit policy rather than central bank LSAPs from NBFIs. 5 Sims and Wu (2021)
develop a framework in which the central bank conducts QE and other unconventional policies. As
in Gertler and Karadi (2012), they define QE policies as open market operations (OMOs) between
intermediaries and the central bank, through exchanges of long-term private or public bonds and
reserves. They posit a QE policy rule that responds to macro variables such as inflation and output
rather than to financial market variables.
5Gertler and Karadi (2012) write in footnote 2 of their paper that they believe the term “credit policy” reflects
the Fed’s policies more accurately than “QE”.
4
===== PAGE 8 =====
In contrast to the main focus of these studies, our main focus is on the liability side of the central
bank balance sheet. Under QE the central bank buys assets, principally government securities,
from NBFIs, and the latter deposit the proceeds in banks using payment instruments drawn on
the central bank. Banks settle these payment instruments with the central bank, and are credited
in the form of reserves (see below for more details on the empirical evidence on this point). As a
result, commercial bank balance sheets expand. 6
Two other studies also examine the role of central bank liquidity provision, however they do so
using models that do not have a role for commercial banks, and therefore for central bank reserves
in interbank settlement. Del Negro et al. (2017) introduce Kiyotaki and Moore (2012) borrowing
and resaleability constraints into a DSGE model, and capture unconventional monetary policies as
changes in “the composition of liquid and illiquid assets in the hands of the [nonbank] private sector
[that] affect the allocation of resources.” Cui and Sterk (2021) model QE as affecting household
liquidity, held for precautionary motives, under incomplete markets in a tractable Heterogeneous
New-Keynesian (HANK) model. Their model features “narrow” rather than commercial banks,
as deposits are matched one for one by holdings of central bank reserves. This is equivalent to
households directly holding central bank accounts (Benes and Kumhof, 2012).
The growing body of empirical work describing the actual implementation of QE and QT
policies strongly favors our modelling choice of capturing unconventional balance-sheet policies as
central bank purchases (sales) of bonds from (to) NBFIs that are settled via commercial bank bal-
ance sheets. For example, Carpenter et al. (2015) analyze the first rounds of QE in the US between
2008 and 2012 using Flow of Funds data to identify which investors sell government securities to
the Fed. They find that a small group of non-banks, including wealthy households/hedge funds,
broker-dealers and insurance companies, are the largest sellers. Commercial banks are absent from
this list and, as Cui and Sterk (2021) stress, “the Fed could not even have purchased the QE assets
exclusively from banks” because of their comparatively small initial holdings. Waller (2024) further
decomposes the households/hedge funds category for the most recent US QT period and finds that
the changes in government securities holdings are not being driven by hedge funds but rather by
actual households and nonprofit organizations.
Smith and Valcarcel (2023) study the financial market effects of the US QT experience between
2017 and 2019 using a combination of time-varying and constant parameter VARs. They find an
asymmetry in both the liquidity effects (stronger during QT than QE) and the announcement
effects (stronger during QE than QT) such that QT tightens financial conditions under a different
transmission mechanism than simply “QE in reverse.” Du, Forbes and Luzzetti (2024) provide the
6We thereby focus on the QE LSAPs that central banks in advanced economies have conducted since the global
financial crisis, where they have bought and, more recently, sold assets from/to NBFIs. This is in contrast to
conventional central bank balance sheet policies known as open market operations, where the central bank swaps
reserves for government bonds directly with commercial banks.
5
===== PAGE 9 =====
first cross-country assessment of post-COVID QT, based on data from seven advanced economies, 7
as well as the US 2017-2019 QT episode. They find that nonbank investors are by far the most
important (93%) counterparts of central bank balance sheet policies and that they have become even
more relevant post-COVID. Because such interventions are settled via commercial bank balance
sheets, they also find that during QT the liquidity balances of banking sectors have fallen while
spreads between overnight funding rates and central bank interest rates on reserves have increased.
Finally, Christensen and Krogstrup (2019) present empirical evidence that is consistent with the
money channel of our model. They develop a dynamic term structure model and combine it with
an event study approach that exploits the unique set-up of LSAPs by the Swiss National Bank
(SNB) in 2011. Because the SNB exclusively bought short term government bonds from NBFIs,
the authors are able to disentangle the standard (asset) supply-driven portfolio channel from the
effects of reserve injections on long-term interest rates. In a companion paper, Christensen and
Krogstrup (2022) develop a simple portfolio model that captures the two necessary frictions for
a reserve-induced portfolio balance channel that are also present in our model, namely imperfect
asset substitutability and market segmentation, the latter reflecting the fact that NBFIs cannot
hold central bank reserves. However, because their framework features homogeneous banks in a
non-structural, static, and partial equilibrium model, they do not study the effects of QE/QT on
real allocations and financial stability, and the dynamic responses of the economy to monetary and
financial shocks, which are at the heart of our paper.
We also contribute to a literature that investigates the monetary transmission mechanism
across different operational frameworks. Arce et al. (2020) provide a New Keynesian environment
characterized by loanable funds banks and a search and matching interbank set-up. They focus on
the influence of the supply of reserves on the interbank market and on the central bank operational
framework rather than on the effects of unconventional QE and QT policies. Their central bank
therefore interacts exclusively with commercial banks (not with NBFIs) via its deposit and lending
facilities, with policies implemented through conventional OMOs – swaps between bonds held by
banks and central bank reserves, and driven by bank demand at the posted interest rates. Bianchi
and Bigio (2022) develop a granular over-the-counter (OTC) interbank market, also using search
and matching frictions, and investigate how central bank balance sheet policies influence commercial
banks’ lending profits and liquidity risk.
Our model of ex-ante heterogeneous banks, which replaces search and matching frictions with
liquidity and risk frictions, allows us to develop a parsimonious model of the interbank market.
We are thereby able to study the effects of QT and QE policies on the interbank market, but also
their general equilibrium propagation to the wider money markets and the real economy. We also
note that while the search and matching frameworks of Arce et al. (2020) and Bianchi and Bigio
7Their sample includes Australia, Canada, Euro area, New Zealand, Sweden, UK and US.
6
===== PAGE 10 =====
(2022) have very desirable characteristics, they rely on the assumption that interbank markets are
populated by a large set of anonymous actors on both sides of the market. In reality commercial
bank participants face a much more limited set of counterparties that are well known to them, and
we argue that our interbank market set-up is able to capture this reality. 8
We also contribute to the literature on the interaction of alternative monetary policy tools
and their welfare implications. For example, Benigno and Benigno (2022) show that reserves can
become an additional tool to control aggregate demand, as output depends not only on real interest
rates but also on the supply of liquidity, where in their model reserves directly enter the aggregate
supply equation due to a working-capital constraint faced by producers. Similarly, Diba and Loisel
(2020, 2021) and Piazzesi, Rogers and Schneider (2021) develop frameworks where central bank
liquidity is non-trivial, where in their models there is a decoupling between money-market rates
and the relevant rate for household consumption-saving decisions when policy operates on a floor
system. Canzoneri, Cumby and Diba (2017) study optimal monetary policy when the Fed has two
instruments, and find that the monetary authority can obtain stabilizing welfare effects in cases
where the central bank eliminates monetary distortions and has additional macroeconomic goals.
Harrison (2017) studies the optimal use of QE and conventional policy in a New Keynesian set-up
that incorporates a bond market friction that gives rise to a portfolio balance channel. He finds
that at the ZLB the optimal implementation of QE is rapid, while the optimal normalization path
is gradual and is characterized by QT taking place before policy rate lift-offs. These frameworks
abstract from the role of reserves as an interbank settlement medium, and the resulting effects on
financial stability and on bank lending, money creation, and overall economic performance.
3. The Model
The economy is populated by households, manufacturers, unions, banks, money market funds,
bond investors, and a government. Figure 1 provides an overview of the model’s financial sector.
Banks consist of retail deposit banks, wholesale banks, and retail lending banks, where we can
think of wholesale banks as the treasury department of the bank that optimizes the overall balance
sheet subject to regulations, while treating retail activities as separate profit centers. There are two
groups of wholesale and retail lending banks that are identified by subscripts b1 and b2. Nominal
variables are denoted by upper case letters while real variables are denoted by the corresponding
lower case letters (Land ℓ for loans). Real normalized (by the price level and productivity) variables
are denoted by lower case letters with a check symbol. The growth rate of productivity is constant
at x “ Tt{Tt´1, while the growth rate of the CPI price level is πp
t “ Pt{Pt´1.
8Salgado-Moreno (2021) analyzes the effects of the change in the US monetary operating framework around the
time of the global financial crisis on banks’ credit supply to the real economy. He uses a regime-switching model
with a parsimonious Federal Funds market, where government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) are the only interbank
lenders.
7
===== PAGE 11 =====
Figure 1: Overview of the Model
Households
Bond Investors
MMF
Wholesale BanksRetail Deposit Banks
Retail Lending Banks
Central Bank
Group 1
Group 2
Group 1
Group 2
Reserve 
Market
Interbank 
Market
QE/QT policies
BI Deposits
HHs Deposits
Retail 
Loans
Retail 
Deposits
Wholesale 
Loans
Dividends
Wholesale 
Deposits
3.1. Households
3.1.1. Preferences
Households have unit mass and are indexed by j. They maximize lifetime utility subject
to sequences of intertemporal budget constraints, bank participation constraints, and deposits-in-
advance constraints, by choosing plans for consumption ctpjq, hours worked htpjq, investment Itpjq,
capital ktpjq, retail loans Lb1,tpjq and Lb2,tpjq, and retail deposits Dhh
t pjq. The objective function
of household j is
M ax E0
8ÿ
t“0
βt
hh
#
p1 ´ v
x qSc
t logpctpjq ´ νct´1q ´ ψ htpjq1` 1
η
1 ` 1
η
+
, (1)
where Sc
t is a mean 1 first-order autoregressive process with i.i.d. normal error term that represents
shocks to consumption preferences, v is the degree of external habit persistence, ψ is the utility
weight of hours, and η is the labor supply elasticity. Consumption ctpjq, with corresponding
utility-based price index Pt, is a CES aggregate over varieties ctpj, zq, with time-varying elasticity
of substitution θp,t, and therefore with time-varying gross price markups θp,t{ pθp,t ´ 1q “ Sµp
t ¯µp,
where Sµp
t is a mean 1 i.i.d. normal process with error terms that represent price markup shocks.
Household j accumulates the physical capital stock ktpjq, which depreciates at the rate ∆, and
with investment subject to adjustment costs GI,t pjq “ Si
tIt pϕi{2q pItpjq{ pxIt´1pjqq ´ 1q2. Capital
accumulation is therefore given by ktpjq “ p1 ´ ∆q kt´1pjq ` Si
tItpjq ´ GI,t pjq, where Si
t is a mean
1 first-order autoregressive process with i.i.d. normal error terms that represent shocks to the
marginal efficiency of investment. The nominal and real after-tax returns to capital are given by
8
===== PAGE 12 =====
Retk,t “
“
p1 ´ ∆q Qt ` Rk
t
‰
{Qt´1 and retk,t “ Retk,t{ pxπp
t q “
“
p1 ´ ∆q qt ` rk
t
‰
{qt´1, where Rk
t is
the user cost of capital and Qt is Tobin’s q.
3.1.2. Money Demands
Households face a deposits-in-advance constraint for purchases of consumption and investment
goods using deposits Dhh
t pjq,
κDhh
t pjq ě 4Smon
t Pt pctpjq ` Itpjqq , (2)
where the factor 4 annualizes quarterly flows, κ determines steady state velocity and thereby the
overall size of bank balance sheets, andSmon
t is a mean 1 first-order autoregressive process with i.i.d.
normal error terms that represent shocks to money demand. We verify that this constraint always
binds in equilibrium. Its multiplier in the household optimization problem is denoted by λdia
t . In or-
der to satisfy their demand for deposit money, households need to obtain bank loans, and in this they
are subject to small but nonzero real adjustment costs GL,b1,tpjq “ ℓb1,tpjq ϕℓ
2
`ˇℓb1,tpjq ´ ˇℓb1,t´1
˘2
and GL,b2,tpjq “ ℓb2tpjq ϕℓ
2
`ˇℓb2,tpjq ´ ˇℓb2,t´1
˘2
. We omit cash from the analysis, because in modern
economies cash accounts for well under 5% of the broad money supply.
3.1.3. Budget Constraint
The representative household’s flow budget constraint, with multiplier Λ hh
t pjq, is
Qtktpjq ` Dhh
t pjq
`
1 ` ϕf
`
brat
bi,t ´ ¯brat
bi
˘˘
´ PtΨhh
t pjq ´ Σb2
i“b1Li,tpjq p1 ´ GL,i,tpjqq (3)
“ Qt´1kt´1pjqRetk,t
´
1 ´ Σb2
i“b1Scred
t´1 Scred
i,t´1κiΓk
i,t
¯
` id,t´1Dhh
t´1pjq
`QtSi
tItpjq ´ QtGI,t pjq ´ PtItpjq ´ Ptctpjq ` W hh
t htpjq ` PtΩtpjq .
Portfolio costs: On the first line of (3), the term ϕf
´
brat
bi,t ´ ¯brat
bi
¯
represents transactions
costs related to holding financial assets. The term brat
bi,t “ Bbi
t { p4GDPtq is the ratio to GDP of
privately held government debt and ¯brat
bi is its steady state. This cost is taken as exogenous by
households, and PtΨhh
t pjq includes its lump-sum distribution back to households ( PtΨhh
t pjq also
includes lump-sum redistribution of loan adjustment costs). This allows the model to replicate the
small but positive elasticity of US real interest rates with respect to defaultable government debt
that has been found in the literature, and that is now also used in IMF debt sustainability analysis
(see the section on calibration below). Interest rates on all financial assets are affected in the same
fashion, so that a change in the privately held government debt-to-GDP ratio, ceteris paribus, will
affect the level of interest rates but not the structure of spreads.
9
===== PAGE 13 =====
Asset returns: On the second line of (3), households’ return to capital excludes returns that
serve to repay loans, where Γk
i,tpjq are the endogenous shares of the gross returns of collateral capital
that go to bank groups 1 and 2 to service loans, κiScred
t´1 Scred
i,t´1 are the shares of domestic capital
that have been accepted as collateral by these banks, Scred
t is a mean 1 first-order autoregressive
process with i.i.d. normal error terms that represent shocks to aggregate credit supply, and Scred
i,t
are mean 1 first-order autoregressive processes with i.i.d. normal error terms that represent shocks
to sectoral credit supply. The nominal interest rate on bank deposits is id,t.
Other income and expenditures: Other than net asset income, households receive net
revenue from capital production QtSi
tItpjq ´ QtGI,t pjq, labor income W hh
t htpjq, where W hh
t is
the wage rate paid by unions, and lump-sum net income PtΩtpjq. The latter includes profits
of manufacturers, unions, bond investors, and banks, net fiscal transfers, and all transactions and
adjustment costs. Expenditures include consumption and investment purchases Ptctpjq and PtItpjq.
3.1.4. Participation Constraints
Households also face participation constraints for taking out loans from
the two retail lending bank groups, which will be explained below. We have
Scred
t Scred
i,t κiRetk,t`1Qtktpjq
´
Γk
i,t`1pjq ´ ξiGk
i,t`1pjq
¯
´ iℓ,i,tLi,tpjq, with multiplier Λ hh
t pjqλpart
i,t pjq,
i P tb1, b2u. The term ξiGk
i,t`1pjq denotes bank group i’s endogenous monitoring cost share in gross
returns to collateral capital, where ξi is the loss-given-default parameter, and iℓ,i,t is the wholesale
lending rate charged by wholesale banks to retail lending banks.
3.1.5. Optimality Conditions
Household optimality conditions are shown in full in the Online Appendix. We assume that
each household holds identical initial stocks of all physical and financial assets and liabilities,
has identical exposures to all investment projects, and receives identical net lump-sum transfers.
Because all households face the same market prices, and ex-post set the same prices for their own
product varieties, they remain symmetric at all times. The first-order conditions for individual
goods varieties and hours are standard. In the first-order conditions for aggregate consumption
and investment the effective purchase price exceeds the direct purchase price by a mark-up due to
monetary frictions, τ mon
t “ λdia
t 4Smon
t , where λdia
t is decreasing in the quantity of deposits. We will
utilize the concept of the effective purchase price in interpreting our simulation results below. The
first-order condition for capital has additional terms related to the use of capital as loan collateral.
In the Euler equation for deposits, the asset return includes both a gross financial or interest rate
yield and a net nonfinancial or convenience yield λdia
t κ. The first-order conditions for loans feature
loan adjustment cost terms as well as the returns λpart
b1,t rℓ,b1,t`1 and λpart
b2,t rℓ,b2,t`1.
10
===== PAGE 14 =====
3.2. Manufacturers
Manufacturers have unit mass and are indexed by j, where individual manufacturers differ by
the goods variety they produce. Manufacturer j hires labour ht pjq from unions at the nominal wage
rate W pr
t , and capital kt´1 pjq from households at the user cost Rk
t , to produce one variety j of the
domestic good yt pjq “ p Sa
t Ttht pjqq1´α pkt´1 pjqqα, where Sa
t is a mean 1 first-order autoregressive
process with i.i.d. normal error terms that represent shocks to technology. The labor demanded
htpjq is a CES aggregate over varieties htpj, zq, with time-varying elasticity of substitution θw,t, and
therefore with time-varying gross price markups θw,t{ pθw,t ´ 1q “ Sµw
t ¯µw, where Sµw
t is a mean 1
i.i.d. normal process with error terms that represent wage markup shocks. Manufacturer j sets the
price of his variety Ptpjq subject to monopolistic competition and quadratic price adjustment costs
GP,tpjq “ p ϕp{2q Ptyt pPtpjq{Pt´1pjq ´ ¯πq2. The first-order conditions for input choice and the New
Keynesian Phillips curve are standard.
3.3. Unions
Unions have unit mass and are indexed by j, where individual unions differ by the labour
variety they sell. Unions buy homogenous labor from households at a competitively deter-
mined nominal household wage rate W hh
t . They set the wage W pr
t pjq of their labor vari-
ety htpjq subject to monopolistic competition and quadratic wage adjustment costs GW,tpjq “
pϕw{2q W pr
t ht
`
W pr
t pjq{W pr
t´1pjq ´ ¯πx
˘2. The wage Phillips curve is standard.
3.4. Bond Investors
Bond investors have unit mass and are indexed byj. They are neither producers nor consumers
of physical goods. They are the sole investors in domestic government securities Bbi
t pjq that pay
the nominal interest rate ib,t. Their holdings of wholesale deposits are denoted by Dbi
t pjq and
pay the wholesale interest rate iw,t. Bond investors transfer part of their net interest earnings to
households as dividends Π bi
t pjq in a lump-sum fashion, subject to dividend smoothing modelled as
external habit persistence. The objective function for bond investor j is
M ax E0
8ÿ
t“0
βt
bi
«
Sc
t
´
1 ´ ν
x
¯
log
´
ˇΠbi
t pjq ´ ν
x
ˇΠbi
t´1pjq
¯
` φ
`ˇbbi
t pjq
˘1´ϑ
1 ´ ϑ
ff
, (4)
where βbi differs from βhh. To represent the highly interest-sensitive nature of wholesale money
markets, bonds in the utility function replace the deposits-in-advance friction of households. The
interest semi-elasticity of demand for government securities ϵbi
b , which depends on ϑ, measures the
percent increase of bond investors’ demand for government bonds in response to a one percentage
point increase in the annualized interest rate on government bonds ib,t. The nominal budget
constraint exhibits the same portfolio costs as households. We omit the optimality conditions.
11
===== PAGE 15 =====
3.5. Money Market Funds
Money market funds (MMF) represent the Federal Funds market. MMF have unit mass and
are indexed by j. They buy wholesale deposit liabilities Db1,tpjq and Db2,tpjq from wholesale banks,
in a competitive market and at interest rates iw,b1,t and iw,b2,t. Their customers are retail deposit
banks, who demand a CES aggregate Drdb
t pjq, at interest rate iw,t, over Db1,tpjq and Db2,tpjq. The
interest rate iw,t represents the effective Federal Funds rate (EFFR). The CES aggregate features
a (high) elasticity of substitution θ, and a quasi-share parameter bSd
t , where Sd
t is a mean 1 first-
order autoregressive process with i.i.d. normal error terms that represent deposit withdrawal shocks
between the two banking groups. The optimality conditions are standard.
3.6. Wholesale Banks
There are two groups of wholesale banks that have identical steady state net worth and loans,
but that differ in their position in the deposit market, and therefore also in the markets for reserves
and interbank loans. Specifically, bank group 1 represents money center banks that have a larger
deposit base, and that therefore also hold larger central bank reserves and are net lenders in the
interbank market. Bank group 2 by contrast has fewer deposits and reserves, and is a net borrower
in the interbank market. The interest rates on wholesale deposits iw,i,t are determined by each
bank group’s relative holdings of deposits and reserves, as fewer reserves relative to deposits make
the management of the payment system more risky and costly to the bank and lead it to offer
a higher wholesale deposit rate in order to attract more reserves. The interest rate on interbank
loans, which represents LIBOR and its more recent successors, is determined by the interaction of
group 1 supply and group 2 demand, with group 1 demanding a higher rate for larger interbank
loans relative to its net worth, as larger loans make the management of counterparty exposures
more risky and costly to the bank, and lead it demand higher compensation.
The optimization problems of group 1 and group 2 wholesale banks are very similar, with
the only difference being due to the fact that group 1 has the additional problem of managing a
costly counterparty exposure in the interbank market. We will therefore describe the optimization
problem of group 1, and will refer to differences with group 2 where necessary.
Group 1 wholesale banks are indexed by pj, zq, because they are exposed to two different and
independently distributed sources of risk. They are ex-ante identical in terms of ratios of assets
and liabilities to net worth, while they may differ in terms of the size of net worth. They issue
wholesale loans Lb1,tpj, zq to retail lending banks and wholesale deposits Db1,tpj, zq to money market
funds. They also hold reserves Mb1,tpj, zq at the central bank and issue interbank loans Ob1,tpj, zq.
Their net worth equals N b
b1,tpj, zq, and their balance sheet is Lb1,tpj, zq ` Mb1,tpj, zq ` Ob1,tpj, zq “
Db1,tpj, zq ` Nb1,tpj, zq.
12
===== PAGE 16 =====
Along the continuum indexed by j, gross interest-inclusive loans are subject to lognormally
distributed idiosyncratic shocks ωb
b1,t`1 with mean 1 and variance pσb
b1q2 that represent shocks to
banks’ non-interest earnings, and that give rise to ex-post differences across banks in terms of
violations of minimum capital adequacy rules (MCAR). We denote the pdf and cdf of these shocks
by f bpωb
b1,t`1q and F bpωb
b1,t`1q, the cutoff below which MCAR is violated ex-post by ¯ ωb
b1,t, and we
define f b
t “ f bp¯ωb
b1,tq and F b
t “ F bp¯ωb
b1,tq. Along the continuum indexed by z, current period net
worth is subject to lognormally distributed idiosyncratic shocks ωo
t`1 with mean 1 and variance
pσoq2 that represent shocks to banks’ equity, and that give rise to ex-post differences across banks
in terms of the ratio of interbank loans to net worth. We denote the pdf and cdf of these shocks
by f opωo
t`1q and F opωo
t`1q, the cutoff productivity shocks below which loan default occurs ex-post
by ¯ωo
t , and we define f o
t “ f op¯ωo
t q and F o
t “ F op¯ωo
t q.
Reserve scarcity cost (RSC): Each bank faces a reserve scarcity cost that is pro-
portional to its net worth, increasing in the ratio of deposits to reserves, and depen-
dent on a parameter ð that indexes the convexity of the cost function, GM,b1,tpj, zq “
pυ{ p1 ` ðqq Nb1,tpj, zq pDb1,tpj, zq{Mb1,tpj, zqq1`ð. The coefficients υ and ð of the RSC are assumed
to be equal across group 1 and group 2 wholesale banks. Note that the functional form of our
RSC is the inverse of Vissing-Jorgensen’s (2023) so-called ”reserves convenience yield function”.
While our cost function is decreasing in reserves and increasing in deposits, Vissing-Jorgensen’s
convenience yield function is increasing in reserves and decreasing in deposits. Both specifications
capture the liquidity benefits of reserves for banks, such as reductions in transaction costs when
faced with deposits outflows.
Minimum capital adequacy rules (MCAR): MCAR limit wholesale banks’ ability to
create credit and money. Bank pj, zq faces a future penalty of χb1,ℓ pLb1,tpj, zq ` rOb1,tpj, zqq πp
t`1 if
next period’s net worth falls short of a fraction γℓ of risk-weighted assets. Next period’s net worth
equals the difference between the gross returns on asset-side and liability-side items, plus the net
profits of retail deposit and retail lending banks, minus reserve scarcity costs. The regulatory risk
weights on loans to households and banks equal 1 and r ă 1.
Large exposure limit costs (LELC): Bank pj, zq faces a future cost of
pχo{ p1 ` ϖqq Nb1,tpj, zq pOb1,tpj, zq{Nb1,tpj, zqq1`ϖ πp
t`1 if the ratio of interbank loans to current
net-loss-adjusted net worth Ob1,tpj, zq{
`
Nb1,tpj, zqωo
t`1pj, zq
˘
exceeds γo.
In equilibrium each bank faces the same interest rates rℓ,b1,t`1, rw,b1,t`1, ro,t`1, rt`1, and
rd,t`1, the same parameters χb1,ℓ, γℓ, and χo, the same expected risk F b
b1,t`1, f b
b1,t`1, F o
t`1, f o
t`1,
and identical lump-sum distributions from retail lending and deposit banks relative to net worth.
This implies that the optimality conditions can be solved for unique loans-to-net-worth, deposits-to-
net-worth, reserves-to-net-worth, and interbank-loans-to-net-worth ratios that are identical across
banks. We can therefore drop the index pj, zq in our final optimality conditions.
13
===== PAGE 17 =====
Net worth maximization: There are three first-order conditions with respect to the bank’s
asset side items, taking interest rates as given. Defining ra,b1,t`1 “ rw,b1,t`1 `
´
ˇΠR
b1,t`1x{ˇnb1,t
¯
`
prt`1 ´ rw,b1,t`1q p ˇmb1,t{ˇnb1,tq ` p ro,t`1 p1 ´ γℓrq ´ rw,b1,t`1q pˇob1,t{ˇnb1,tq ´
` ˇGM,b1,t{ˇnb1,t
˘
, the first-
order conditions for wholesale loans, reserves and interbank loans are:
Etrw,b1,t`1 “ Et
¨
˝rt`1 ` υ
˜ ˇdb1,t
ˇmb1,t
¸ð ˇℓb1,tˇnb1,t ` ˇob1,tˇnb1,t ´ ˇn2
b1,t
ˇm2
b1,t
˛
‚ , (5)
Etrℓ,b1,t`1 “ Et
»
–rw,b1,t`1 ` υ
˜ ˇdb1,t
ˇmb1,t
¸ð
ˇnb1,t
ˇmb1,t
˜
1 `
χb1,ℓf b
b1,t`1
p1 ´ γℓq rℓ,b1,t`1
˜
1 ` r ˇob1,t
ˇℓb1,t
¸¸fi
fl (6)
`Etχb1,ℓ
˜
F b
b1,t`1 ` f b
b1,t`1
˜
1 ` r ˇob1,t
ˇℓb1,t
¸ ˜
ra,b1,t`1
p1 ´ γℓq rℓ,b1,t`1
`ˇℓb1,t{ˇnb1,t
˘
¸¸
,
Etro,t`1 “ Et
¨
˝rw,b1,t`1 ` υ
˜ ˇdb1,t
ˇmb1,t
¸ð ˆ ˇnb1,t
ˇmb1,t
˙˛
‚{
ˆ
1 ´ γℓr` γℓr
ft
˙
(7)
`Et
ˆ
χb1,ℓrF b
t`1 ` χo
ˆ ˇob1,t
ˇnb1,t
˙ϖ ˆ
F o
t`1 ` f o
t`1
1
p1 ` ϖq γo
ˇob1,t
ˇnb1,t
˙˙
{
ˆˆ
1 ´ γℓr` γℓr
ft
˙
ft
˙
,
ft “
˜
1 `
χb1,ℓf b
b1,t`1
p1 ´ γℓq rℓ,b1,t`1
˜
1 ` rSrwgt
t
ˇob1,t
ˇℓb1,t
¸¸
. (8)
Condition (5) shows that RSC drives a wedge between the wholesale deposit rate and the policy rate
ONRRP. The reason is that in order to increase the level of their reserves banks have to offer a higher
wholesale deposit rate. Condition (6) shows that both MCAR and RSC drive a wedge between
wholesale lending rates and wholesale deposit rates. The reason is that an increase in loans increases
the likelihood and thus expected cost of violating capital adquacy rules (MCAR), and increases
the scarcity of reserves and thus the bank’s wholesale funding costs (RSC). Condition (7) shows
that LELC, RSC and MCAR (the latter only if r ą 0) drive a wedge between interbank lending
rates and wholesale deposit rates. The reason is that an increase in interbank loans increases the
likelihood and expected cost of breaching large exposure limits (LELC), and increases the scarcity
of reserves and thus the bank’s wholesale funding costs (RSC).
Post-dividend net worth equals net interest earnings, minus MCAR, LELC and RSC costs,
and minus dividends that equal a fixed fraction of net worth. The latter are paid out to households
in a lump-sum fashion, a specification that can be obtained by applying the “extended family”
approach of Gertler and Karadi (2011).
Group 2 wholesale banks, whose interbank borrowings are denoted byOb2,tpjq, only exist in the
continuum indexed by j, as they do not face interbank lending risks. Their optimality condition for
reserves is identical to (5) after replacing ˇob1,t with ´ˇob2,t. Their optimality condition for wholesale
14
===== PAGE 18 =====
loans is similar to (6) but with the interbank loans term ˇ ob1,t replaced by zero. Their optimality
condition for interbank borrowing takes the same form as the denominator on the first line of (7),
with the denominator replaced by one and the second line absent. Group 2 wholesale banks trade
off the higher cost of maintaining lower reserves with the higher cost of interbank borrowing.
3.7. Retail Deposit Banks
Retail deposit banks have unit mass and are indexed by j. They place wholesale deposits
Drdb
t pjq with money market funds at interest rate iw,t, and pay for them by issuing retail deposit
varieties indexed by z, Dhh
t pj, zq and Dbi
t pj, zq, to households and bond investors. Retail holders
demand CES composites of all deposit varieties. Retail deposit banks are perfectly competitive on
the asset side, while on the liability side they are perfectly competitive vis-` a-vis bond investors,
and monopolistically competitive vis-` a-vis households. This implies the pricing rulesibi
d,t “ iw,t and
ihh
d,t “ id,t “ siw,t, where s is a mark-down term whose size depends on the elasticity of substitution
between household deposit varieties.
3.8. Retail Lending Banks
The model of retail lending banks is based on a modified version of Bernanke et al. (1999).
Group 1 and 2 retail lending banks obtain wholesale loans from group 1 and 2 wholesale banks,
respectively. Inside each group retail lending banks are homogenous, and each bank lends the
same amount to a borrower j. The total eligible loan collateral is the gross return to capital
EtRetk,t`1Qtktpjq, while actual collateral is determined by the fractions κiScred
t Scred
i,t of this collat-
eral that banks accept. Along the continuum indexed by j, the gross return to capital is subject to
log-normally distributed idiosyncratic productivity shocks ωk
i,t`1 with mean 1 and variance pσk
i q2
that represent shocks to borrowers’ real earnings, and that give rise to ex-post differences across
borrowers, with a fraction entering bankruptcy. We denote the pdf and cdf of these shocks by
f kpωk
i,t`1q and F kpωk
i,t`1q, the cutoffs below which bankruptcy occurs ex-post by ¯ωk
i,t, and we define
f k
i,t “ f kp¯ωk
i,tq and F k
i,t “ F kp¯ωk
i,tq. Retail lending banks’ cost of funding is given by wholesale lend-
ing rates iℓ,i,t, while their loan contracts stipulate non-contingent retail lending rates ir,i,t that must
be paid in full unless borrowers declare bankruptcy, which becomes advantageous when ωk
i,t ă ¯ωk
i,t.
In case of bankruptcy, because of monitoring costs, the bank can only recover a fraction 1 ´ ξi
of collateral. In equilibrium each retail lending bank in sector i faces the same rr,i,t`1, rℓ,i,t`1,
retk,t`1, ξi, κi and qt. This implies that there are unique loans-to-capital ratios that are identical
across borrowers, so that all equilibrium conditions are straightforward to aggregate. The optimal-
ity conditions are the participation constraints that are shown in Section 2.1.4. These state that
ex-ante net loan losses must equal zero, while ex-post net loan losses are generally different from
zero because lending rates are non-contingent.
15
===== PAGE 19 =====
3.9. Government
The Taylor rule for ONRRP, the interest rate on central bank reserves it, is a conventional
inflation forecast-based rule, with a steady state ¯ ı, interest rate smoothing with coefficient ii, a
countercyclical response to deviations of one-quarter-ahead (as in Christiano et al. (2014)) inflation
from the inflation target ¯π with coefficient iπ, and monetary policy shocks to Sint
t , a mean 1 process
with i.i.d. normal error terms:
it “ pit´1qii ¯ıp1´iiqEt
ˆ πp
t`1
¯π
˙p1´iiqiπ
Sint
t . (9)
A second rule, for the ratio to GDP of the quantity of reservesmrat
t “
`
ˇmt{
`
4 ˚ g ˇdpt
˘˘
, ensures
that the spread of the LIBOR interbank rate io,t over the ONRRP rate it does not increase too
much relative to its steady state. We assume a steady state reserve ratio ¯ mrat, a countercyclical
response to deviations of the interbank rate spread with coefficient mo, and reserve policy shocks
to Sr
t , a mean 1 first-order autoregressive process with i.i.d. normal error terms. The rule is
ˇmrat
t “ ¯mrat
ˆ io,t{it
¯ıo,t{¯ıt
˙4mo
Sr
t . (10)
On the central bank balance sheet, reserves are backed one-to-one by government securities,
Bcb
t “ Mt. This implies that any central bank profits are transferred directly to the government
budget and are not retained as equity.
Real government spending is given by gt “ sggdpS g
t , where Sg
t is a mean 1 first-order autore-
gressive process with i.i.d. normal error terms. The government adjusts lump-sum taxes to ensure
that government debt remains constant relative to trend, ˇbt “ ¯b.
3.10. Market Clearing
The market clearing conditions for government bonds and reserves are Bt “ Bcb
t ` Bbi
t and
Mt “ Mb1,t ` Mb2,t. The market clearing conditions for retail and wholesale deposits are Drdb
t “
Dhh
t ` Dbi
t and Dwhs
t “ Db1,t ` Db2,t. The interbank market clears at Ob1,t “ Ob2,t. Finally, the
goods market clearing condition is yt “ ct ` It ` gt “ gdpt.
4. Calibration
Our calibration is for the US. Calibration of the steady state is based on the literature and on
sample averages, where available, over the period 2010Q1-2019Q4. For some interest rates we had
to use a shorter sample as they are not available over the full decade.
16
===== PAGE 20 =====
4.1. Real Sector
Trend productivity growth x is calibrated at 2% in annual terms. The CPI inflation target
¯π and the (pre-CBDC) equilibrium real interest rate ¯r are set to 2% and 3% in annualized terms,
respectively, the latter by adjusting the discount factor of bond investors βbi. For preferences
of households, following the estimates in Cesa-Bianchi et al. (2023), we fix the habit persistence
parameter v at 0.77, and the elasticity of labour supply η at 1.54. We normalize steady state labour
supply to 1 by adjusting the preference weight ψ. For preferences of bond investors, we set the
opportunity cost semi-elasticity of demand for government bonds at a high ϵbi
b “ 300, by adjusting
the parameter ϑ. This ensures that for bond investors very large changes in relative holdings of
wholesale deposits and government securities require only very small changes, measured in a few
basis points, in the spread between the wholesale deposit rate and the rate on government securities.
For technologies, steady state gross markups are fixed at ¯µp “ ¯µw “ 1.1, in line with much of
the literature. To match BLS sample averages for the US business sector, we set the steady state
labor income share to 59.4% by adjusting the share parameter α. We set the ratio of investment to
GDP to its sample average of 17.3% by adjusting the depreciation rate ∆. We calibrate the ratio
of the value of capital Qtkt to GDP, which according to Fed and NIPA data equals around 240%,
by adjusting the willingness-to-lend parameter κb1.
4.2. Fiscal Sector
The steady state total government debt-to-GDP ratio is set to its sample average of 98% by
adjusting ¯brat. The steady state reserves-to-GDP ratio is set to its sample average of 11.5% by
adjusting ¯mrat. As a result, the steady state ratio of privately held government debt to GDP
¯brat
bi equals 86.5%. The steady state share of government spending in real GDP is set to its sample
average of 19% by adjustingsg. We set the steady state spread between the interest rates on reserves
and on government securities to 20 basis points, equal to the sample average of the difference
between the Federal Funds rate and the 3-month treasury bill rate, by adjusting the bonds-in-the-
utility function parameter φ. The elasticity of the real interest rate on government securities with
respect to changes in the government debt-to-GDP ratio is the subject of Laubach (2009), Engen
and Hubbard (2004), and Gale and Orszag (2004), who report, for the US, that each percentage
point increase in the debt ratio increases the real interest rate by between 1 and 6 basis points.
The IMF’s revised Debt Sustainability Framework (International Monetary Fund (2021, 2022)) now
makes explicit reference to a “Laubach (2009) Rule”, putting the value of that elasticity at 4 basis
points. Our calibration is more conservative at 2 basis points, which requires setting ϕf “ 0.00005.
17
===== PAGE 21 =====
4.3. Financial Sector
The first subset of financial sector calibration targets relates to bank capital ratios. The
steady state capital adequacy ratio γℓ is set to 10.5% which is the sum of the 8.0% Basel III
total capital ratio and the 2.5% capital conservation buffer (see Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision (2017)). We omit the countercyclical and GSIB buffers, and the additional supervisory
requirements, as these do not apply to all banks and/or at all times. As shown in Federal Reserve
Bank of New York (2018), banks hold capital considerably above the regulatory minimum. In our
model they do so to self-insure against the risk of violating the MCAR. Based on the data in Federal
Reserve Bank of New York (2018), we therefore set the actual steady state capital ratio to 15.5%,
for an endogenous capital buffer of 5.0%, by adjusting banks’ dividend payout parameters δb1 and
δb2. We set the risk weight on interbank loans to r “ 0.2.
The second subset of financial sector calibration targets relates to regulatory non-compliance
rates of banks and bankruptcy rates of their borrowers. The cumulative shares of banks that violate
the Basel minimum in any quarter are F b
b1 and F b
b2. We set these shares to 2.5% in steady state,
close to the approximate historical frequency of systemic banking crises in Jorda et al. (2011), by
adjusting the bank riskiness parameters σb
b1 and σb
b2. Borrower bankruptcy rates F k
b1 and F k
b2 are
set to 1.5% by adjusting the loss-given-default parameters ξb1 and ξb2. This matches delinquency
rates on corporate loans reported in the FRED database.
The third subset of financial sector calibration targets relates to steady state spreads outside
the interbank market. To calibrate the wholesale lending spread over the policy rate, we use a 2000-
2016 data set produced by Anderson and Cesa-Bianchi (2020) of “maturity-adjusted credit spreads”
(MACS) for listed non-financial US firms. These are spreads between the cost of borrowing for a
given firm and an equal-maturity risk-free interest rate. We recall that in the model the wholesale
lending rate corresponds to the interest rate that would be charged to a notional zero-risk corporate
borrower. A model-consistent calibration for the wholesale lending spread is therefore the spread
between the average commercial paper rate paid by the safest blue-chip (AAA) non-bank corporates
and the treasury bill rate (not the policy rate, which is on average 20 basis points higher than the
treasury bill rate) at matching maturities of 3 months. Over the sample period this spread equals
66 basis points, and we therefore calibrate the steady state wholesale lending rates ¯ rℓ,b1 and ¯rℓ,b2
to 3.46% by adjusting the MCAR parameters χb1,ℓ and χb2,ℓ. The steady state retail lending rates
¯rr,b1 and ¯rr,b2 are calibrated by adjusting the borrower riskiness parameters σk
b1 and σk
b2. For their
data counterpart we use the difference between Moody’s seasoned Baa corporate bond yield and
the market yield on U.S. treasury securities at 10-year constant maturity. Over the sample period
this spread equals 189 basis points. This yields retail lending rates of 5.35%. The steady-state
spread between the policy rate and the retail deposit rate is calibrated by adjusting the spread
parameter s. Pre-GFC average spreads between the US policy rate and the effective interest rate
18
===== PAGE 22 =====
on household checking accounts (from FDIC data) equalled around 300 basis points. 9 However,
in our model deposits include a much wider range of financial sector liabilities, including deposits
which attract rates much closer to the policy rate. To approximate the average convenience yield of
total financial sector liabilities to households, we therefore calibrate this spread at 150 basis points.
This is similar to Ashcraft and Steindel (2008), who compute, for the single year 2006, a spread
of 134 basis points between the average rate of US commercial banks’ portfolio of treasury and
agency securities on the one hand and the average rate on their complete portfolio of liabilities on
the other hand.
The fourth subset of parameters determines the steady state size and composition of balance
sheets. Based on US Flow of Funds data for the sample period, retail loans are calibrated at
135% of GDP, spread equally between the two bank groups, by adjusting the discount factor of
households βhh and the willingness-to-lend parameter κb2. The steady state retail deposits to GDP
ratio is calibrated at 65% based on the average value over the sample in BIS data, by adjusting
the velocity parameter κ. Together with the steady state net worth implied by the calibration of
bank capital ratios, and the steady state reserve and interbank ratios discussed below, this leaves
the bond investor wholesale deposits to GDP ratio as a residual, at 79% of GDP.
The fifth subset of parameters determines the size of the interbank market. Based on Allen et
al. (2020), Table 1, we set the steady state interbank loans to net worth ratio of group 1 wholesale
banks to 25%, which implies a steady state interbank loans to total assets ratio of 3.3%, by adjusting
the quasi share coefficient of the deposits aggregate b.10 We set the interbank loans to net worth
ratio beyond which penalties start to apply to 35% by adjusting the parameter γo. The fraction of
banks that exceed that ratio in each quarter F o is set to 20% by adjusting the parameter σo.
The sixth subset of parameters determines interest rates in the interbank market, with it
representing the ONRRP rate, iw,t the EFFR, and io,t LIBOR. Figure 1 shows the empirical
relationships between reserves and interest rate spreads in the data (circles) and the model (lines).
We first match the empirical relationship between the quantity of reserves and the EFFR-
ONRRP spread, which is shown on the left-hand-side of Figure 1. Between 2013m10, when the
ONRRP was created, and 2019m12, the average spread between EFFR and ONRRP has averaged
12 basis points. We therefore calibrate the steady state level of the real wholesale deposit rate
at 3.12%, by adjusting the scale parameter of reserve scarcity costs υ. To match the slope of the
relationship, we set the elasticity of substitution between the two deposit types to a fairly high
θ “ 5, and then adjust the curvature parameter of reserve scarcity costs ð to obtain a 9 basis
points increase in iw,b2,t for every 1 percentage point of GDP reduction in group 2 banks’ reserves,
approximately in line with the data.
9This spread has been significantly compressed during the ZLB period, but we do not consider this period to be
representative of normal conditions in the banking sector.
10The 3.3% US value is considerably lower than the approximately 30% values reported for France and Germany.
19
===== PAGE 23 =====
Figure 2: Interbank Market Spreads as a Function of Reserves
EFFR-ONRRP Spread
rw,t /r  t
5 10 15 20
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7Percent p.a.
LIBOR-ONRRP Spread
ro,t /r  t
5 10 15 20
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7Percent p.a.
(horizontal axis = reserves in percent of GDP)
(line = model fit, circles = monthly data)
(r.h.s. circles: orange/violet = 1-month/3-month LIBOR)
Next we match the empirical relationship between the quantity of reserves and the LIBOR-
ONRRP spread. Figure 2 shows both 1-month and 3-month LIBOR, but our calibration is based
on the former. Over the same period 2013m10 - 2019m12, the average spread between 1-month
LIBOR and EFFR has averaged 10 basis points. We therefore calibrate the steady state level of
the real interbank lending rate at 3.22%, by adjusting the LELC coefficient χo. To match the slope
of the relationship, we set the LELC curvature coefficient to ϖ “ 2.
4.4. Adjustment Costs, Shock Persistence, and Policy Rules
We have used the estimation results of the related models (without interbank market) in Cesa-
Bianchi et al. (2023) and Kumhof et al. (2023) to allow us to perform preliminary welfare analysis.
We calibrate the price and wage adjustment cost parameters at ϕp “ ϕw “ 300, the investment
adjustment cost parameter at ϕi “ 0.78, and the loan adjustment cost parameter at ϕℓ “ 0.0005.
The autocorrelation coefficients are ρa “ 0.96, ρc “ 0.57, ρcred “ 0.95, ρd “ 0.5, ρg “ 0.94,
ρi “ 0.87 and ρmon “ 0.89.
In our simulations, the interest rate policy rule parameters are set to ii “ 0.5 and ii “ 2.0. For
the QE policy rule we will experiment with different values formo, with a baseline of mo “ 0. We set
the standard errors of shocks to approximately reproduce the standard errors and autocorrelation
coefficients of GDP, consumption, investment, government spending, policy rates, inflation, credit,
and risky spreads over our sample.
20
===== PAGE 24 =====
5. Steady State Effects of the Quantity of Reserves
5.1. Pure Monetary QE/QT
Figure 3 studies the effects on 20 key model variables of permanently changing the quantity of
central bank reserves by varying the parameter ¯mrat while leaving all other parameters unchanged,
including the overall quantity of government debt. The horizontal axis is the total reserves to GDP
ratio. This is a pure monetary policy without any coordination with debt issuance policy.
We begin by discussing the balance sheet mechanics, and for concreteness we will discuss QT,
which moves towards the left from the black vertical line that indicates the initial steady state.
With QT, the central bank sells bonds to bond investors, and bond investors pay by transferring
wholesale deposits to the central bank. Banks settle the central bank’s wholesale deposit claims in
reserves, which decline one-for-one with the decrease in central bank bond holdings. Retail deposits
of households remain constant relative to GDP and therefore decline in line with GDP. The reason
is that the deposits-in-advance constraint implies that retail deposits move one-for-one with the
sum of consumption and investment, while the government spending rule implies that government
spending moves one-for-one with the sum of consumption and investment.
The initial reserve positions of bank groups B1 and B2 are approximately 9.5% and 2.0% of
GDP. Accordingly, most of the drop in reserves is absorbed by B1 banks, even though at the margin
the effect of QT on the reserve scarcity of B2 banks is more severe. We observe this in the behavior
of the wholesale deposit rate spread over ONRRP, which is around six times larger for the reserves-
scarce B2 banks. Because retail loans are priced directly off wholesale deposit rates, this means
that the loans of B2 banks become relatively more expensive, and therefore drop by significantly
more than those of B1 banks. B2 banks, in addition to paying a significantly higher interest rate
on their wholesale deposits, are also willing to pay significantly more to attract interbank loans,
with their interbank loan spread increasing by a very similar magnitude to their wholesale deposit
rate spread. At the left margins of Figure 3, total central bank reserves have decreased by 7% of
GDP, and B2 banks have compensated for this by paying 70-75 basis points more on their wholesale
deposits and interbank loans, and thereby attracting interbank loans equal to 4% of GDP. However,
due to more expensive lending rates, their loans decrease by 1% of GDP, and those of their B1
competitors by another 0.4% of GDP. The resulting contraction in deposits has significant effects
on economic activity, with GDP lower by around 0.4%, and investment by 1.0%, for the largest QT
policies shown in Figure 3.
21
===== PAGE 25 =====
The effects of QT on equilibrium real interest rates are driven by two effects that are both
present at all points on the curve, but whose relative strength varies along the curve. To see this,
note that bond investor and wholesale bank optimality conditions for wholesale deposit rates are
¯rw “ x
βbi
`
1 ` ϕf p¯brat
bi ´ ¯brat
bi,ssq
˘
, (11)
¯rw “
ˆ ¯dwhs
¯drdb
˙
¯r `
ˆ ¯db1
¯drdb
˙
ĘRSC m
b1 `
ˆ ¯db2
¯drdb
˙
ĘRSC m
b2, (12)
where p¯brat
bi ´ ¯brat
bi,ssq captures the deviations of bond investor’s government bond holdings from the
initial (calibrated) steady state, and where
ĘRSC m
i “ υ
ˆ ¯di
¯mi
˙ð ˆ ¯ni
¯mi
˙ ˆ ¯di ´ ¯mi
¯mi
˙
,
for i P p b1, b2q, are the derivatives of reserves scarcity costs with respect to reserves. We can
combine (11) and (12) to yield
¯r “
ˆ ¯drdb
¯dwhs
˙ x
βbi
`
1 ` ϕf p¯brat
bi ´ ¯brat
bi,ssq
˘
´
ˆ ¯db1
¯dwhs
˙
ĘRSC m
b1 ´
ˆ ¯db2
¯dwhs
˙
ĘRSC m
b2. (13)
The first effect of QT on the steady state or neutral policy rate can be seen in the first term on
the right hand side of (13). This is that, for a constant level of total government debt, a reduction in
central bank reserves and therefore in central bank holdings of government debt leads to an increase
in bond investor holdings of government debt. As the stock of government debt in private hands
increases, all interest rates, including the policy rate, increase. 11 This effect is approximately linear
in privately-held government debt and therefore in reserves. As shown in Figure 3, it dominates at
reserves-to-GDP ratios above 10%.
The second effect of QT on the steady state policy rate can be seen in the second and third
terms on the right hand side of (13). This is that, as the scarcity or convenience yield of reserves
increases, banks are willing to pay a higher wholesale deposit rate relative to the rate on reserves
in order to not lose reserves to other banks, and this pushes up the spread between the two rates.
In other words, ceteris paribus, QT reduces the rate that the central bank needs to pay on reserves,
because reserves have become so valuable to banks. This effect is highly nonlinear in reserves,
because reserve scarcity costs increase at an increasing rate as reserves approach zero. As shown in
Figure 3, this effect dominates at reserves-to-GDP ratios below 10%, and can account for liquidity
discounts of 20 basis points or more over the range shown. This has important implications for
monetary policy.
11See the discussion of portfolio costs following equation (3) and of the IMF’s “Laubach rule”in Section 4.2.
22
===== PAGE 26 =====
Figure 3: Steady States - Monetary QE/QT
Total Reserves
Percent of GDP
5 10 15 20
5
10
15
20
Deposits HH
Percent of GDP
5 10 15 20
64
64.5
65
65.5
66
Reserves B1
Percent of GDP
5 10 15 20
5
10
15
Reserves B2
Percent of GDP
5 10 15 20
1
2
3
4
5
Interbank Loans
Percent of GDP
5 10 15 20
1
2
3
4
Real Reserves Rate
Percent p.a.
5 10 15 20
2.85
2.9
2.95
3
Wholesale Deposit Spread B1
Percent p.a.
5 10 15 20
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.1
0.12
Wholesale Deposit Spread B2
Percent p.a.
5 10 15 20
0.2
0.4
0.6
Interbank Rate Spread
Percent p.a.
5 10 15 20
0.2
0.4
0.6
Deposits B1
Percent of GDP
5 10 15 20
65
70
75
Deposits B2
Percent of GDP
5 10 15 20
54
56
58
60
62
Deposits BI
Percent of GDP
5 10 15 20
55
60
65
70
75
Loans HH
Percent of GDP
5 10 15 20
134
135
136
137
Loans B1
Percent of GDP
5 10 15 20
67.4
67.6
67.8
68
68.2
68.4
Loans B2
Percent of GDP
5 10 15 20
66.5
67
67.5
68
68.5
Bonds BI
Percent of GDP
5 10 15 20
75
80
85
90
GDP
Percent Deviation from St. St.
5 10 15 20
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
Wholesale Loans Spread B1
Percent p.a.
5 10 15 20
0.46
0.48
0.5
0.52
Wholesale Loans Spread B2
Percent p.a.
5 10 15 20
0.4
0.6
0.8
Inflation Rate
Percent p.a.
5 10 15 20
1
1.5
2
2.5
(horizontal axis = reserves in percent of GDP)
(vertical black line = level of reserves in calibrated st. st.)
(horizontal orange line = value of variable in calibrated st. st.)
23
===== PAGE 27 =====
5.2. Fiscal-Monetary QE/QT
Figures 4 and 5 study the steady state effects of changes in the quantity of government bonds
that are allowed to be partially or fully absorbed by changes in the quantity of reserves. While these
simulations exogenously change the total government debt to GDP ratio, for ease of comparison
with figure 3, the horizontal axis remains the total reserves to GDP ratio.
The motivation behind these exercises is that the response to the COVID shock across advanced
economies has included very significant increases in both government debt and central bank reserves.
For example, between 2020Q1 and 2020Q2 the US ratio of government debt to GDP rose by 26
percentage points and the amount of Fed reserves rose by 7 percentage points. These simultaneous
expansions in bonds and reserves have proven very persistent. Hence, in this section we simulate a
permanent increase in the government bonds-to-GDP ratio assuming two distinct responses from
the central bank that are shown in Figures 4 and 5.
Figure 4 studies the effects of permanently changing the quantity of total government bonds
while allowing the supply of central bank reserves, and thus government bonds held by the central
bank, to be endogenously determined by commercial bank demand for reserves. This is akin to
a “demand-driven” monetary operational framework with abundant reserves that central banks
like the Bank of England and the ECB are aiming to maintain in the foreseeable future, after the
current cycle of QT comes to an end (see Schnabel (2023) and Bailey (2024)).
We focus our description on the case of an increase in government bonds – the section to the
right of the black vertical line. On impact the entire bond issuance is absorbed by bond investors,
who immediately sell slightly more than 100% of the additional issuance to banks in exchange for
wholesale deposits, so that their bond holdings drop slightly relative to GDP. Banks immediately
exchange these bonds for reserves at the central bank, and the central bank accommodates their
higher demand. The higher level of reserves affects the interbank market by pushing down both
interbank lending and the interbank rate spread. However, the effect on other lending rates is small
because the interest rate on reserves increases. The reason is that the much more abundant supply
of reserves reduces the scarcity premium or liquidity discount of reserves, while the risk premium
is barely affected due to the very small change in government debt held by bond investors. On the
balance sheets of commercial banks, the increase in reserve holdings is matched by an increase in
wholesale deposits held by bond investors. There is little change in lending because of the small
effects on overall lending rates. Finally, the small drop in the opportunity cost of holding money,
the spread between lending and deposit rates, causes a small increase in real GDP.
24
===== PAGE 28 =====
Figure 4: Steady States - Fiscal-Monetary QE/QT - Endogenous Reserves
Government Bonds
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
96
98
100
102
104
106
Deposits HH
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
64
64.5
65
65.5
66
Reserves B1
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
8
10
12
14
16
Reserves B2
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
2
3
4
5
Interbank Loans
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
1.5
2
2.5
Real Reserves Rate
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
2.95
3
3.05
Wholesale Deposit Spread B1
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
0.03
0.04
0.05
Wholesale Deposit Spread B2
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
Interbank Rate Spread
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
Deposits B1
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
68
70
72
74
Deposits B2
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
56
58
60
Deposits BI
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
60
65
70
Loans HH
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
135
135.1
135.2
Loans B1
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
67.5
67.52
67.54
Loans B2
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
67.4
67.5
67.6
67.7
Bonds BI
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
85.6
85.8
86
86.2
86.4
86.6
GDP
Percent Deviation from St. St.
10 15 20
-0.02
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
Wholesale Loans Spread B1
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
0.44
0.45
0.46
0.47
Wholesale Loans Spread B2
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
0.35
0.4
0.45
0.5
0.55
Inflation Rate
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
1
1.5
2
2.5
(horizontal axis = reserves in percent of GDP)
(vertical black line = level of reserves in steady state)
(horizontal orange line = value of variable or of deviation in steady state)
25
===== PAGE 29 =====
Figure 5: Steady States - Fiscal-Monetary QE/QT - Exogenous Reserves
Government Bonds
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
96
98
100
102
104
106
108
Deposits HH
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
64
64.5
65
65.5
66
Reserves B1
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
8
10
12
14
16
Reserves B2
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
2
3
4
5
Interbank Loans
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
1.5
2
2.5
3
Real Reserves Rate
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
2.95
3
3.05
Wholesale Deposit Spread B1
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
0.03
0.04
0.05
Wholesale Deposit Spread B2
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
Interbank Rate Spread
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
0.1
0.2
0.3
Deposits B1
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
68
70
72
74
Deposits B2
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
56
58
60
Deposits BI
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
60
65
70
Loans HH
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
134.95
135
135.05
Loans B1
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
67.45
67.5
67.55
Loans B2
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
67.4
67.45
67.5
67.55
67.6
Bonds BI
Percent of GDP
10 15 20
86.48
86.49
86.5
86.51
GDP
Percent Deviation from St. St.
10 15 20
-0.01
0
0.01
0.02
Wholesale Loans Spread B1
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
0.43
0.44
0.45
0.46
0.47
Wholesale Loans Spread B2
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
0.35
0.4
0.45
0.5
0.55
Inflation Rate
Percent p.a.
10 15 20
1
1.5
2
2.5
(horizontal axis = reserves in percent of GDP)
(vertical black line = level of reserves in steady state)
(horizontal orange line = value of variable or of deviation in steady state)
26
===== PAGE 30 =====
Figure 5 studies the effects of permanently changing the quantity of total government bonds
while having the central bank absorb the entire change, ∆ M “ ∆Bcb “ ∆B. Bonds held by bond
investors are constant although their ratio to GDP decreases very slightly due to a small increase
in GDP. The effect on GDP in this case is even smaller because the effect on the opportunity cost
of money is smaller. This is because bond investors hold on to an unchanged stock of government
debt rather than being net sellers, which implies that the interest rate on reserves increases by more
in the virtual absence of any Laubach effect, while the interest rate spread on deposits drops by
less because reserves increase by less. But other than this small difference the evolution of balance
sheets and spreads is qualitatively very similar to Figure 4.
The lesson from both experiments is that if the central bank buys a substantial portion of
newly issued government debt by issuing reserves, the result is an increase in the policy rate but a
decrease in spreads relative to the policy rate, with a small but beneficial net effect on opportunity
costs and real activity. This is accompanied by an increase in financial stability, as the size of
banks’ balance sheets increases approximately by the quantity of reserves, matched by an increase
in wholesale deposits held by bond investors, with very small effects on lending.
5.3. Iso-Market Rate Curve
Vissing-Jorgensen (2023) introduced the concept of the short-term iso-market rate curve, which
she defines as the schedule with “all possible combinations of reserve supply and the interest rate
on reserves which achieve the same [interbank] target.” Our theoretical model allows us to obtain
an iso-market rate curve.
Figure 6 depicts our model’s short-term iso-market rate curve for the initial steady state
interbank rate. We simulate two cases because in order to fix a central bank interbank rate target,
we need to drop one of two possible steady state equations. The first possibility is to drop the
interbank loans supply schedule of group 1 banks to obtain a “demand driven” scenario, which is
illustrated in the left column of Figure 6. The second possibility is to drop the interbank loans
demand schedule of group 2 banks to obtain a “supply driven” scenario, which is illustrated in the
right column of Figure 6. The center column shows our benchmark QT/QE simulation where both
demand and supply schedules determine the interbank rate simultaneously. All variables share a
common x-axis, the reserves-to-GDP ratio, and each row has similar y-axes for ease of comparison.
Under a demand driven interbank market, the iso-market rate curve increases to the left of
the black vertical line that marks our initial steady state, in other words under QT. At the same
time, interbank loans increase substantially more than under our benchmark case, as reserve-scarce
banks’ demand for relatively cheap interbank funding is fully accommodated by reserve-abundant
banks, who absorb more than 100% of the total decline in reserves while reserve-scarce banks
increase their reserve levels.
27
===== PAGE 31 =====
Figure 6: Steady States - Iso-Market Rate Curves
Iso-Market Rate Curve (Demand Driven)
Percent p.a.
6 8 10 12
2.7
2.8
2.9
3
3.1
Real Reserves Rate (Benchmark)
Percent p.a.
6 8 10 12
2.7
2.8
2.9
3
3.1
Iso-Market Rate Curve (Supply Driven)
Percent p.a.
6 8 10 12
2.7
2.8
2.9
3
3.1
Total Reserves (Demand Driven)
Percent of GDP
6 8 10 12
5
10
15
Total Reserves (Benchmark)
Percent of GDP
6 8 10 12
5
10
15
Total Reserves (Supply Driven)
Percent of GDP
6 8 10 12
5
10
15
Real Interbank Rate (Demand Driven)
Percent p.a.
6 8 10 12
3.2
3.4
3.6
Real Interbank Rate (Benchmark)
Percent p.a.
6 8 10 12
3.2
3.4
3.6
Real Interbank Rate (Supply Driven)
Percent p.a.
6 8 10 12
3.2
3.4
3.6
Interbank Loans (Demand Driven)
Percent p.a.
6 8 10 12
2
4
6
Interbank Loans (Benchmark)
Percent of GDP
6 8 10 12
2
4
6
Interbank Loans (Supply Driven)
Percent of GDP
6 8 10 12
2
4
6
Reserves B1 (Demand Driven)
Percent of GDP
6 8 10 12
0
5
10
Reserves B1 (Benchmark)
Percent of GDP
6 8 10 12
0
5
10
Reserves B1 (Supply Driven)
Percent of GDP
6 8 10 12
0
5
10
Reserves B2 (Demand Driven)
Percent of GDP
6 8 10 12
1
2
3
Reserves B2 (Benchmark)
Percent of GDP
6 8 10 12
1
2
3
Reserves B2 (Supply Driven)
Percent of GDP
6 8 10 12
1
2
3
(horizontal axis: Reserves in Percent of GDP)
(vertical black line = level of reserves in steady state)
(horizontal orange line = value of variable or of deviation in steady state)
28
===== PAGE 32 =====
Under a supply driven interbank market, the iso-market rate curve decreases to the left of our
initial steady state. Because reserve-abundant banks are not compensated for additional interbank
lending with a higher interest rate, the increase in interbank loans is much smaller, and the decline
in reserves of reserve-scarce banks is much larger. The resulting steep increase in their interest rate
liquidity discount is the main reason behind the decline in the iso-market rate curve, which at the
left margin is substantially larger, by 20bps, than in the benchmark case.
These results emphasize the importance of both the distribution of reserves and the interbank
market structure for the success of central bank balance-sheet normalization policies. The latter
matters because under a demand driven interbank market permanent QT is reflected primarily in
quantities, while under a supply driven interbank market QT requires a stronger drop in the real
rate paid on reserves to obtain the same interbank rate target.
6. Economic Shocks and the Interbank Market
6.1. Deposit Withdrawal Shocks
As mentioned in the introduction, our model reflects the reality that banks never face financing
risks, they only face refinancing risks. Banks always finance new loans by creating new deposits,
so that there is never a risk of not being able to finance a new loan. But there is a risk of having
to refinance a lost deposit, and this is the risk we study in this section. To make the magnitudes of
balance sheet changes easier to interpret, we express all balance sheet variables in percent of GDP.
Furthermore, to avoid confounding the separate effects of changes in balance sheets and in GDP
on these ratios we use steady state GDP rather than actual GDP for scaling.
If a bank, after netting, experiences deposit outflows, this captures the notion of a modern
bank run. Such runs however are not a runs on the entire banking system by retail depositors, but
rather runs from one part of the banking system to another by large institutional depositors. We
emphasize the banks-to-banks nature of modern bank runs because deposits are never withdrawn
to “eat” them (as in Diamond-Dybvig (1983) runs), but only to deposit them in safer alternatives.
The empirical evidence (see Cipriani, Eisenbach and Kovner (2024)) shows that in the 2023 US
bank run episodes this alternative has not been cash but the largest US banks, who are perceived to
be safer because they benefit from explicit or implicit deposit guarantees. Our model allows us to
study this in the simplest possible form, by examining the effects of withdrawals from reserve-scarce
bank group B2 to reserve-abundant bank group B1, with no first-round effects on the aggregate
quantity of deposits. We emphasize the wholesale nature of modern bank runs because in the 2023
US bank run episodes the key actors have been large wholesale depositors withdrawing very large
funds. Our model of money market funds allows us to study this through a negative shock Sd
t to
the quasi-share of B2 deposits in their deposits aggregate. This captures the notion of wholesale
money markets “getting nervous” about certain sectors of the banking system.
29
===== PAGE 33 =====
Figure 7: Deposit Withdrawal Shock
GDP
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
Consumption
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0
Investment
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-2.5
-2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
Inflation Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.4
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0
Real Reserves Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.4
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0
Real Interbank Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
1.5
Interbank Rate Spread
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
1.5
Effective Purchase Price
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
Wholesale Deposit Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
1.5
Wholesale Lending Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
1.5
Retail Lending Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
1.5
Loans/GDP_SS
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
Reserves/GDP_SS
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-1
0
1
Interbank Loans/GDP_SS
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
1
2
3
4
Deposits/GDP_SS by Bank
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-5
0
5
Deposits/GDP_SS by Depositor
(pp Difference, green=HH, red=BI)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
(black line = aggregates or B1/B2 averages)
(green line = B1 banks, red line = B2 banks)
30
===== PAGE 34 =====
Figure 8: Deposit Withdrawal Shock for Different Reserves Rules
GDP
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
Consumption
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0
Investment
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-2.5
-2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
Inflation Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.4
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0
Real Reserves Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.4
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0
Real Interbank Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
1.5
Interbank Rate Spread
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
1.5
Effective Purchase Price
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
Wholesale Deposit Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
1.5
Wholesale Lending Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
1.5
Retail Lending Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
1.5
Loans/GDP_SS
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
Reserves/GDP_SS
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
2
4
6
Interbank Loans/GDP_SS
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
1
2
3
4
Deposits/GDP_SS by Bank
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-5
0
5
Deposits/GDP_SS by Depositor
(pp Difference, green=HH, red=BI)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
1
2
3
4
(black line = aggregates or B1/B2 averages)
(green line = B1 banks, red line = B2 banks)
(solid line: m0 “ 0, dashed/dash-dotted/dotted lines: m0 “ 10{30{50)
31
===== PAGE 35 =====
In Figure 7, black lines indicate aggregate variables, including aggregates over B1 and B2
banks, green lines indicate B1 banks, and red lines indicate B2 banks. The shock is very large,
it amounts to a withdrawal of deposits equal to 7.5% of steady state GDP from B2 banks to B1
banks. Ceteris paribus this exceeds the initial reserves of B2 banks, who therefore respond by
offering much higher wholesale deposit spreads and interbank loan spreads, which both increase by
almost 170 basis points. Wholesale deposit rates of B1 banks are almost unaffected. The result of
higher interbank loan spreads is that B2 banks are able to refinance deposit losses of more than
4.5% of steady state GDP in the interbank market. The remaining shortfall of 3.5% of GDP is
reflected in roughly equal reserve losses of B2 banks and reserve gains of B1 banks.
While the shock is purely financial, its effect on the wholesale deposit rate of B2 banks has
large real economic effects because it increases the cost at which reserves-scarce parts of the banking
sector can create money. For B2 banks their funding rate increase is passed through to wholesale
and retail lending rates, so that their lending drops by more than 1% of steady state GDP. For
households the resulting increase in spreads between borrowing costs and deposit rates (see the third
row in the figure) and the associated increase in the effective purchase price lead to a reduction in
retail deposit holdings, see the green line in the bottom right subplot. As a result, GDP drops by
0.65% and inflation by 45 basis points, with the policy rate dropping to partly offset the effects of
higher lending spreads.
The maintained assumption in Figure 7 is that the overall level of reserves is kept constant, in
other words that mo “ 0 and reserves do not respond to deviations of the interbank spread from
its steady state level. Figure 8 explores alternatives whereby the central bank injects additional
reserves when the interbank spread increases. For the most aggressive reserves rule, aggregate
reserves increase by more than 4.5% of GDP. As a result, interbank interest rates increase by
around half a percentage point less, and the quantity of interbank borrowing increases by around
a percentage point of steady state GDP less. The drops in GDP and inflation are halved in size. A
central bank policy that prevents shortages of reserves during banking sector distress can therefore
have significant real economic benefits.
6.2. Asymmetric Lending Boom Shocks
As discussed above, when banks expand and contract in lockstep, the need for deposit refi-
nancing typically does not arise, and if it does it is due to run shocks on the liability side, not
due to excessive lending. However, these assumptions are no longer satisfied when bank lending
does not expand in lockstep. In Figure 9, we therefore explore a scenario where reserve-scarce B2
banks significantly increase their willingness to lend while B1 banks do not. The specific shock is
a persistent increase in the credit supply parameter κb2.
32
===== PAGE 36 =====
Figure 9: Asymmetric Lending Boom Shock
GDP
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
Consumption
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Investment
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
1
2
3
4
5
Inflation Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
Real Reserves Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
Real Interbank Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Interbank Rate Spread
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
Effective Purchase Price
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-1
-0.8
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
Wholesale Deposit Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
Wholesale Lending Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Retail Lending Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0
Loans/GDP_SS
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-1
0
1
2
Reserves/GDP_SS
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
Interbank Loans/GDP_SS
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Deposits/GDP_SS by Bank
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
Deposits/GDP_SS by Depositor
(pp Difference, green=HH, red=BI)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
(black line = aggregates or B1/B2 averages)
(green line = B1 banks, red line = B2 banks)
33
===== PAGE 37 =====
Figure 10: Asymmetric Lending Boom Shock for Different Reserves Rules
GDP
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.5
1
Consumption
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
Investment
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
1
2
3
4
5
Inflation Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
Real Reserves Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
Real Interbank Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Interbank Rate Spread
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
Effective Purchase Price
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-1
-0.8
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
Wholesale Deposit Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
Wholesale Lending Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.1
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Retail Lending Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0
Loans/GDP_SS
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-1
0
1
2
3
Reserves/GDP_SS
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-1
0
1
2
Interbank Loans/GDP_SS
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Deposits/GDP_SS by Bank
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
1
2
3
Deposits/GDP_SS by Depositor
(pp Difference, green=HH, red=BI)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
1
2
3
(black line = aggregates or B1/B2 averages)
(green line = B1 banks, red line = B2 banks)
(solid line: m0 “ 0, dashed/dash-dotted/dotted lines: m0 “ 10{30{50)
34
===== PAGE 38 =====
As a result of the shock, B2 banks increase their loans by around 2.7% of steady state GDP.
However, their ability to retain deposits remains unchanged, so that their deposits only increase
by around 0.4% of steady state GDP over the first year (and just over 1% of steady state GDP at
the maximum after two to three years). The difference of around 2.3% of GDP on impact is partly
made up by borrowing of around 1.1% of steady state GDP in the interbank market, at a spread
that increases by 30 basis points. The remainder, at 1.2% of steady state GDP, represents a loss
of reserves to B1 banks. The increase in their funding costs in the interbank and wholesale deposit
markets partly offsets their greater willingness to lend, with their retail lending rates dropping
by less than those of their competitors, B1 banks. Overall this shock is expansionary because it
increases credit and money creation by the banking system, with GDP increasing by 1.25% and
inflation by 70 basis points.
Figure 10 once more studies the role of countercyclical reserves rules. The effects are qualita-
tively similar to, but quantitatively smaller than, Figure 8. The reason is that the increase in the
interbank rate spread is much smaller, and therefore triggers a more modest reserve injection.
6.3. Reserves Shocks
Figure 11 studies the effects of a large, temporary and persistent reduction in the quantity of
reserves, or QT, from 11.5% of GDP in steady state to around 5.5%. Because of the asymmetric
deposit and reserve positions of the two banking groups, most of the reserve loss is absorbed by B1
banks. But despite this it is B2 banks that experience the strongest effects, with their wholesale
deposit spread increasing by 40 basis points, compared to 5 basis points for B1 banks. This is
passed on to loan pricing, with the result that B2 loans decrease, B1 loans increase, and overall
loans decrease. The overall effect of the increase in funding costs is a decrease in GDP of almost
0.3% and a decrease in inflation by around 20 basis points. In other words, as we have already
seen in Figures 3, 4 and 5 for permanent QT, QT affects real economic activity through the cost
of credit and money creation, and affects banks that have weak deposit bases disproportionately.
6.4. Monetary Policy Shocks
Figure 12 studies the effects of a 100 basis points shock to the interest rate reaction function.
Because interest rate smoothing is modest at ii “ 0.5, the effects of this shock are highly temporary.
The main observation is that there are almost no significant effects through the interbank market,
while the effects on inflation and real variables are standard. This result carries over to all other
real business cycle and aggregate financial sector shocks. The main shocks for which the interbank
market plays an important role are therefore shocks to the quantity of reserves and shocks to the
relative quantities of deposits and/or loans between different parts of the banking system.
35
===== PAGE 39 =====
Figure 11: Reserves Shock
GDP
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.25
-0.2
-0.15
-0.1
-0.05
0
Consumption
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.1
-0.05
0
Investment
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-1
-0.8
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
Inflation Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.15
-0.1
-0.05
0
Real Reserves Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.2
-0.15
-0.1
-0.05
0
Real Interbank Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
Interbank Rate Spread
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Effective Purchase Price
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.1
Wholesale Deposit Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Wholesale Lending Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Retail Lending Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
Loans/GDP_SS
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0
0.1
0.2
Reserves/GDP_SS
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-6
-4
-2
0
Interbank Loans/GDP_SS
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Deposits/GDP_SS by Bank
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-6
-4
-2
0
Deposits/GDP_SS by Depositor
(pp Difference, green=HH, red=BI)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-6
-4
-2
0
(black line = aggregates or B1/B2 averages)
(green line = B1 banks, red line = B2 banks)
36
===== PAGE 40 =====
Figure 12: Monetary Policy Shock
GDP
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.25
-0.2
-0.15
-0.1
-0.05
0
Consumption
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.2
-0.15
-0.1
-0.05
0
Investment
(% Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.8
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
Inflation Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.15
-0.1
-0.05
0
Real Reserves Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Real Interbank Rate
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Interbank Rate Spread
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
10-3
Effective Purchase Price
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.05
0.1
Wholesale Deposit Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
10-3
Wholesale Lending Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-2
0
2
4
10-3
Retail Lending Rate Spread
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
0.01
0.02
0.03
Loans/GDP_SS
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.1
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Reserves/GDP_SS
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.01
-0.005
0
0.005
0.01
Interbank Loans/GDP_SS
(pp Difference)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
0
5
10
10-3
Deposits/GDP_SS by Bank
(pp Difference, green=B1, red=B2)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.1
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Deposits/GDP_SS by Depositor
(pp Difference, green=HH, red=BI)
-4 0 4 8 121620242832
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
(black line = aggregates or B1/B2 averages)
(green line = B1 banks, red line = B2 banks)
37
===== PAGE 41 =====
7. Welfare
We have seen that a policy of injecting additional central bank reserves during periods of
stress in interbank markets is beneficial in that it helps to smooth wholesale deposit rates, and
thereby lending rates, credit creation, and money creation. The effects on real activity can be
substantial. Figure 13 attempts to quantify this by performing welfare evaluations of both policy
rules, the Taylor for the ONRRP rate and the reserves rule for the quantity of reserves. We perform
a second-order approximation of both the welfare criterion and the equilibrium equations of the
model over a grid of policy rule parameterizations. The zero-welfare baseline for the grid sets
iπ “ 1.5 and mo “ 0. The upper limits of our search are iπ “ 3.00 (as in Schmitt-Grohe and Uribe
(2004)) and mo “ 100. Of course the results in Figure 13 depend on the calibrated standard errors
of the model’s shocks, including reserves shocks and net deposit withdrawal shocks.
Under our baseline calibration, we find that around our highest welfare point welfare is nearly
flat in the two smoothing coefficients, except at very high interest rate smoothing where welfare
is decreasing. The highest welfare is achieved when both smoothing coefficients are at zero and
both feedback coefficients are at their upper limits, where welfare is very flat in iπ but less flat in
mo. The overall welfare gain, relative to the baseline, equals a 0.16% compensating consumption
variation, roughly equally shared between the Taylor rule and the reserves rule. An active reserves
policy can therefore make a substantial contribution to smoothing the business cycle and thereby
improving welfare. This result is dependent on a significant role for reserves shocks and deposit
withdrawal shocks in our calibration.
8. Conclusion
This paper aims to shed light on the macroeconomic and financial stability implications of
central bank balance sheet policies. Much of the early theoretical literature on QE focused on
the asset side of central bank balance sheets, most importantly on the effect of asset purchases on
interest rates and term premia of different assets, while treating the liability side as simply a short-
term asset held by households or investors. By contrast, our focus is on the liability side of central
bank balance sheets, and the fact that the principal central bank liability is reserves, which have a
very specific function in the financial system and thereby the economy. Most importantly, we focus
on the effects of reserve creation (QE) or destruction (QT) on interbank rates and ultimately bank
lending rates, and through these on credit creation, money creation, and economic activity.
The framework that we have developed has two other important advantages. First, it takes
account of the fact that banks never face financing risks when making loans, they only face refinanc-
ing risks when losing deposits after netting, where on average such post-netting deposit losses will
equal zero over the cycle. Second, the framework lends itself to ready incorporation into standard
38
===== PAGE 42 =====
New Keynesian DSGE frameworks, with a fully developed real as well as financial sector, as all
financial-to-real linkages are explicitly modeled without reliance on reduced-form model elements.
Figure 13: Policy Rules and Welfare
Smoothing Parameters
Feedback Parameters
Our results show that the effects of central bank balance sheet operations through the reserves
market can be sizeable. Intuitively, a larger central bank balance sheet reduces interbank frictions,
and this reduces the opportunity cost of credit and money for households and firms. This in turn
boosts economic activity. Also, the incremental effects of injecting reserves are much larger at lower
reserve levels. Both of these statements are supported by the data – see Figure 2.
39
===== PAGE 43 =====
At low reserve levels the equilibrium real interest rate (r-star) is significantly (in our example
by up to around 20 basis points) reduced by a liquidity discount due to a scarcity premium for
reserves, while the output effects of increasing reserve levels are very sizeable. Given these beneficial
(albeit at a decreasing rate) effects of higher reserve levels, it is not surprising that a policy rule of
actively injecting additional reserves into the interbank market in response to financial disturbances
can make a sizeable contribution to financial and real stability. One such financial disturbance that
we have identified is a shock whereby deposits are withdrawn from one part of the financial system
and deposited in another part. This can lead to highly asymmetric effects on the two parts of the
banking system, with the part experiencing withdrawals experiencing large increases in funding
costs while the other part sees almost no change. This asymmetry can imply large effects on the
real economy. Another financial disturbance is an asymmetric lending boom, whereby one part of
the financial sector expands lending by far more than the other, and as a result will tend to lose
some deposits and therefore reserves even after netting.
For most real business cycle and aggregate financial shocks, the reserves and interbank mar-
kets and thus the liability sides of central banks’ balance sheets play only a negligible role, so that
the conclusions and policy recommendations of existing models remain nearly unchanged. These
markets do matter when shocks are to the quantity of reserves themselves, or when shocks are asym-
metric across different parts of the financial system. Because such asymmetric shocks are clearly
now a concern of policymakers, and because our model can represent them in a very parsimonious
way, this should make this framework interesting for policymakers.
Bayesian estimation of this model is part of our future research agenda. But there is one other
important topic for future research. In our model, a QT operation takes the form of the central bank
buying government bonds from bond investors and getting paid in wholesale deposits, which are
then settled by banks in the form of reserves. The central bank never becomes a lender to the real
economy. This reserves-against-government-bonds modus operandi of QT (and QE) corresponds
closely to the institutional reality in the US and the UK. 12 However, in some jurisdictions such
as the eurozone the central bank follows a reserves-against-private-securities model. This would
require modifications to our model.
12In the UK there are also some purchases and sales of high-quality corporate securities, but their size is very small
compared to purchases and sales of government securities.
40
===== PAGE 44 =====
References
Allen, F., Covi, G., Gu, X., Kowalewski, O. and Montagna, M. (2020), “The Interbank Market
Puzzle”, Bank of England Staff Working Papers, No. 862.
Anderson, G. and Cesa-Bianchi, A. (2020), “Crossing the Credit Channel: Credit Spreads and
Firm Heterogeneity”, Bank of England Staff Working Papers, No. 854.
Andr´ es, J., Lopez-Salido, D., and Nelson, E., (2004), “Tobin’s imperfect asset substitution in
optimizing general equilibrium”, Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking, 36(4), pp. 665-90
Arce, ´O., Nu˜ no, G., Thaler, D. and Thomas, C. (2020), “A Large Central Bank Balance Sheet?
Floor vs Corridor Systems in a New Keynesian Environment”, Journal of Monetary Economics ,
114(C), 350-367.
Ashcraft, A. and Steindel, C. (2008), “Measuring the Impact of Securitization on Imputed Bank
Output”, Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Bailey, A. (2024), “The importance of central bank reserves”, Lecture in honour of Charles Good-
hart, London School of Economics, https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/speech/2024/may/andrew-
bailey-lecture-london-school-of-economics-charles-goodhart.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (2017), “Basel III: Finalizing Postcrisis Reforms”, Tech-
nical Report, Bank for International Settlements.
Benes, J. and Kumhof, M. (2012), “The Chicago Plan Revisited”, IMF Working Papers,
WP/12/202.
Benigno, G. and Benigno, P. (2022), “Managing Monetary Policy Nor-
malization”, Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Report, No. 1015,
https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/staff
reports/sr1015.html.
Bernanke, B., Gertler, M. and Gilchrist, S. (1999), “The Financial Accelerator in a Quantitative
Business Cycle Framework”, Handbook of Macroeconomics, Volume 1C, 1341—1393.
Bianchi, J. and Bigio, S. (2022), “Banks, Liquidity Management, and Monetary Policy”, Econo-
metrica, 90(1), 391-454.
Borio, C. (2023), “Getting up from the Floor”, BIS Working Papers, No 1100,
https://www.bis.org/publ/work1100.htm.
Busetto, F., Chavaz, M., Froemel, M., Joyce, M., Kaminska, I. and Worlidge, J. (2022), “QE at
the Bank of England: a perspective on its functioning and effectiveness”, Bank of England Quar-
terly Bulletin 2022 Q1, https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/quarterly-bulletin/2022/2022-q1/qe-at-
the-bank-of-england-a-perspective-on-its-functioning-and-effectiveness.
Canzoneri, M., Cumby, R. and Diba, B. (2017), “Should the Federal Reserve Pay Competitive
Interest on Reserves?”, Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , 49(4), 663-693.
Carpenter, S., Demiralp, S., Ihrig, J. and Klee, E. (2015), “Analyzing Federal Reserve Asset Pur-
chases: From Whom Does the Fed Buy?”, Journal of Banking & Finance, 52(C), 230-244.
Cesa-Bianchi, A., Kumhof, M., Sokol, A. and Thwaites, G. (2024), “Towards a New Monetary The-
ory of Exchange Rate Determination”, Bank of England Staff Working Papers, No. 817 (updated,
forthcoming).
Chen, H., C´ urdia, V. and Ferrero, A. (2012), “The Macroeconomic Effects of Large-scale Asset
Purchase Programmes”, Economic Journal, 122(564), 289-315.
41
===== PAGE 45 =====
Christensen, J.H.E. and Krogstrup, S., 2019. “Transmission of Quantitative Easing: The Role
of Central Bank Reserves,”The Economic Journal, Royal Economic Society, vol. 129(617), pages
249-272.
Christensen, J.H.E. and Krogstrup, S., 2022. “A Portfolio Model of Quantitative Easing,”Quarterly
Journal of Finance (QJF), World Scientific Publishing Co. Pte. Ltd., vol. 12(04), pages 1-39.
Christiano, L., Motto, R. and Rostagno, M. (2014), “Risk Shocks”, American Economic Review,
104 (1) , 27—65.
Cipriani, M., Eisenbach, T.M. and Kovner, A. (2024), “Tracing Bank Runs in Real Time”, Federal
Reserve Bank of New York Staff Reports, no. 1104, https://doi.org/10.59576/sr.1104.
Cui, W. and Sterk, V. (2021), “Quantitative Easing with Heterogeneous Agents”, Journal of Mon-
etary Economics, 123(C), 68-90.
Del Negro, M., Eggertsson, G., Ferrero, A. and Kiyotaki, N. (2017), “The Great Escape? A
Quantitative Evaluation of the Fed’s Liquidity Facilities”, American Economic Review , 107(3),
824-857.
Diamond, D. and Dybvig, P. (1983), “Bank Runs, Deposit Insurance, and Liquidity”, Journal of
Political Economy, 91 (3) , 401—419.
Diba, B. and Loisel, O. (2020), “A Model of Post-2008 Monetary Policy”, unpublished manuscript,
Georgetown University, http://olivierloisel.com/research/MOD
paper.pdf.
Diba, B. and Loisel, O. (2021), “Pegging the Interest Rate on Bank Reserves: A Resolution of New
Keynesian Puzzles and Paradoxes”, Journal of Monetary Economics, 118(C), 230-244.
Du, W., Forbes, K. and Luzzetti, M. (2024), “Quantitative Tightening Around the Globe: What
Have We Learned?”, Report for the Kent A. Clark Center for Global Markets at the Univer-
sity of Chicago Booth School of Business. https://www.chicagobooth.edu/research/igm/events-
forums/2024-usmpf-conference.
Engen, E. and Hubbard, G. (2004), “Federal Government Debt and Interest Rates”,NBER Macroe-
conomics Annual, 19, 83-160.
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (2018), “Quarterly Trends for Consolidated US Banking Orga-
nizations”, First Quarter 2018.
Gale, W. and Orszag, P. (2004), “Budget Deficits, National Saving, and Interest Rates”, Brookings
Papers on Economic Activity, 35(2), 101-210.
Gertler, M. and Karadi, P. (2011), “A Model of Unconventional Monetary Policy”, Journal of
Monetary Economics, 58 (1) , 17-34.
Gertler, M. and Karadi, P. (2012), “QE 1 vs. 2 vs. 3... a Framework for Analyzing Large Scale Asset
Purchases as a Monetary Policy Tool”, International Journal of Central Banking , 9(S1), 5–53.
Harrison, R. (2017), “Optimal Quantitative Easing”, Bank of England Staff Working Papers, No.
678.
International Monetary Fund (2021), “Review of Debt Sustainability Framework for Market Access
Countries”, IMF Policy Paper, January.
International Monetary Fund (2022), “Staff Guidance Note on the Sovereign Risk and Debt Sus-
tainability Framework for Market Access Countries”, August.
Jakab, Z. and Kumhof, M. (2015), “Banks Are not Intermediaries of Loanable Funds - and why
This Matters”, IMF Working Papers, WP/15/529.
42
===== PAGE 46 =====
Jakab, Z. and Kumhof, M. (2019), “Banks Are not Intermediaries of Loanable Funds - Facts,
Theory and Evidence”, Bank of England Staff Working Papers, No. 761 (updated).
Jorda, O., Schularick, M. and Taylor, A. (2011), “Financial Crises, Credit Booms, and External
Imbalances: 140 Years of Lessons”, IMF Economic Review, 59(2), 340-378.
Kiyotaki, N. and Moore, J. (2012), “Liquidity, Business Cycles, and Monetary Policy”, NBER
Working Papers, No. 17934.
Kumhof, M., Pinchetti, M., Rungcharoenkitkul, P. and Sokol, A. (2023), “CBDC Policies in Open
Economies”, CEPR Discussion Papers, No. 17982.
Kumhof, M. and Wang, X. (2021), “Banks, Money, and the Zero Lower Bound on Deposit Rates”,
Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control , 132(C).
Laubach, T. (2009), “New Evidence on the Interest Rate Effects of Budget Deficits and Debt”,
Journal of the European Economic Association , 7(4), 858-885.
Logan, L. (2023), “Ample Rand the Friedman Rule”, speech given in Frank-
furt on November 10 at the ECB Conference on Money Markets 2023,
https://www.dallasfed.org/news/speeches/logan/2023/lkl231110.
Piazzesi, M., Rogers, C. and Schneider, M. (2021), “Money and Bank-
ing in a New Keynesian Model”, unpublished manuscript, Stanford University,
https://web.stanford.edu/˜piazzesi/MBinNK.pdf.
Salgado-Moreno, M. (2021), “Monetary Policy, Excess Reserves and Credit Supply: Old-
Style vs. New-Style Central Banking”, Working Paper, https://sites.google.com/view/mauricio-
salgadomoreno/.
Schmitt-Groh´ e, S. and Uribe, M. (2004), “Optimal Fiscal and Monetary Policy under Sticky Prices,
Journal of Economic Theory, 114, 198-230.
Schnabel, I. (2023), “Back to Normal? Balance Sheet Size and Interest Rate Control”, speech given
in New York on March 27 at an event organized by Columbia University and SGH Macro Advisors,
https://www.ecb.europa.eu/press/key/date/2023/html/ecb.sp230327
1˜fe4adb3e9b.en.html.
Sims, E. and Wu, C. (2021), “Evaluating Central Banks’ Tool Kit: Past, Present, and Future”,
Journal of Monetary Economics, 118(C), 135-160.
Smith, A. and Valcarcel, V. (2023), “The Financial Market Effects of Unwinding the Federal
Reserve’s Balance Sheet”, Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control , 146(C).
Vissing-Jorgensen, A. (2023) “Balance Sheet Policy Above the Effective Lower Bound”,
Working Paper for the ECB’s Sintra conference, https://sites.google.com/view/annette-vissing-
jorgensen/working-papers.
Waller, C. (2024), “Thoughts on Quantitative Tightening, Including Remarks on the Pa-
per ‘Quantitative Tightening around the Globe: What Have We Learned?’”, speech,
https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/speech/waller20240301a.htm.
43