

Money Market Conditions and the Federal Reserve’s Balance Sheet - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK

Speech

Money Market Conditions and the Federal Reserve’s Balance Sheet

        November 12, 2025
  

Roberto Perli
    , Manager of the System Open Market Account
    
  

    Remarks at 2025 U.S. Treasury Market Conference, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, New York City
    
As prepared for delivery

Introduction

It is a pleasure to offer closing remarks after another excellent U.S.  Treasury Market Conference.
1
 A  well-functioning and liquid Treasury market is in all of our interests, and indeed  the national interest. This conference is an important forum that brings  together policymakers, academics, regulators, market participants, and others  to step back from the day-to-day and discuss big-picture issues that affect this  vital market.

It took a lot of behind-the-scenes work to put together this event, and  I want to thank all the staff from the Joint Member Agencies who contributed to  making the day run so smoothly.
2
 I  also want to thank the excellent speakers we heard from for sharing their  insights, and everyone who came and participated in this event.

As the System Open Market Account (SOMA) Manager, it is my job to brief  the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) on financial market developments and oversee  the Open Market Trading Desk’s (the Desk) execution of monetary policy as  directed by the FOMC. A particular focus over recent months has been monitoring  and assessing reserve conditions, to assist the Committee in determining when  it would be appropriate to stop shrinking the balance sheet. As you know, the  Committee made that decision at its October meeting, with portfolio runoff ending  effective December 1.
3
 In my  remarks today, I will discuss the changes in money markets that prompted that  decision and outline some next steps for management of the Federal Reserve’s balance  sheet.

But, first, let me offer the usual disclaimer that these views are my  own, and not necessarily those of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the  Federal Reserve System, or any other organization.
4

A Brief Review of Balance Sheet Reduction

Let me start with a little history. As you know, the Federal Reserve  added a significant amount of assets to its balance sheet between March 2020  and early 2022 to support the economy and the smooth functioning of financial  markets (
Panel 1 and 2
).  Thanks to the ample reserves monetary policy implementation framework that the Committee  officially adopted in 2019, the additional reserves created by those asset  purchases did not impair the Federal Reserve’s ability to control the federal  funds rate.
5
 Still, many of those reserves were not necessary for rate control. In fact,  reserves were so plentiful that banks no longer found it necessary to compete  for them, and excess liquidity migrated from the banking sector to money market  funds. In terms of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet, this showed up as reserves  fluctuating between $3.1 trillion and $3.4 trillion for most of the runoff  period, with occasional excursions outside that range (
Panel 3 and 4
). A large portion of the  additional liquidity created by asset purchases instead appeared as balances in  the Fed’s overnight reverse repo facility (ON RRP). Usage of that facility rose  well above $2 trillion.

In May 2022 the Committee announced its plans for reducing the size of the  balance sheet and said that it would do so until reserves reached a level  somewhat above ample.
6
 As I  have discussed previously, I believe that market indicators can be a useful  tool for determining when reserves approached ample, rather than trying to  estimate that level ex ante.
7
 When  reserves are abundant, banks have little incentive to hold onto a marginal  dollar of reserves for precautionary reasons, and money market rates are generally  stable and close to the floor set by our administered rates. As reserves move  from abundant toward ample levels, money market rates become more responsive to  changes in reserves and start moving upward relative to administered rates. 

Indeed, as the balance sheet shrank, money market conditions gradually tightened,  and we observed first the reemergence of repo-rate volatility on month- and quarter-ends  (
Panel 5
), then pressure  developing on other Treasury securities settlement dates and tax dates, and more  recently firmer repo rates on any given day.
8

As this process unfolded, recognizing that it would be preferable to  approach the ample level of reserves at a slower speed, the Committee decided  to reduce the pace of runoff, first roughly halving it in May 2024 and then reducing  the pace further in March 2025.
9
 The  latter decision was supported also by considerations stemming from the debt  limit: Based on past experience, we projected that, until the debt limit was addressed,  the Treasury would draw down on its Treasury General Account (TGA) balance held  at the Fed. This in turn would boost reserves, leading to a material—but temporary—easing  in money market conditions. Again based on past experience, we expected that  the Treasury would have to rebuild its TGA balance fairly rapidly after the  resolution of the debt limit, thus draining reserves and tightening money  market conditions over a short period of time. These shifts in Fed liabilities would  cloud our assessment of reserve conditions, and meant that conditions could be materially  tighter when the TGA rebuild was complete.
10
 And  that, indeed, is what occurred.

Recent Money Market Conditions

The Treasury began to rebuild its TGA balance in early July. This  involved a rapid increase in net bill issuance and a commensurate drain of  system liquidity. Between early July and mid-September—when the TGA reached  around $800 billion—the ON RRP fell from a balance of about $200 billion to de minimis  levels, and reserves fell by $350 billion. The ON RRP had provided a pool of  funds that could shift into the private repo market if repo rates were even a  few basis points above the ON RRP rate. With the ON RRP effectively drained and  balance sheet reduction ongoing, repo rates now had to increase more  meaningfully to entice a marginal dollar of additional cash into the market. Reflecting  this, from around late August, repo rates began to rise relative to the rate of  interest paid on reserve balances (IORB) and became more sensitive to changes  in liquidity conditions (
Panel 6
).

Repo rates have traded sustainably above the Effective Federal Funds  Rate (EFFR) since September alongside further rises in the TGA and declines in  reserves.
11
 This has  been apparent in the Tri-Party General Collateral Rate (TGCR)—indicative of the  rate at which dealers borrow from clients in the tri-party repo market—and even  more so in the broader Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR).

Higher repo rates have pulled up federal funds rates within the target  range, as you would expect.
12
 Over  the past two months the EFFR has increased by four basis points relative to  IORB, and the cumulative distribution of federal funds trades has noticeably  shifted to the right, reflecting higher rates being paid by a variety of banks  (
Panel 7
). This includes  those banks that borrow primarily to earn IORB, and those that borrow to meet  funding or liquidity needs.

The dynamic of higher repo rates pulling up the EFFR is also what we saw  during the last period of balance sheet runoff (
Panel 8 and 9
). When repo rates rise sustainably  above the EFFR, the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs), which are the main lenders  in the federal funds market, have an incentive to reallocate cash into  higher-yielding repo.
13
 This  can result both in FHLBs cutting back lending in federal funds at lower rates,  and in more FHLB bargaining power for those trades that continue. Either way,  the result is an upward shift in the EFFR.

Tighter money market conditions and increasing repo rates have also led  to increased usage of the Standing Repo Facility (SRF) (
Panel 10
). Prior to mid-September, we had  only seen material SRF usage around a couple of month- and quarter-end dates,  when the usual reporting date pressures pushed some repo rates above the SRF  minimum bid rate. By contrast, over the past two months, repo rates—including  in the tri-party segment of the market where we operate the SRF—have climbed  above the SRF minimum bid rate on some days, and the facility has seen more  frequent usage and larger volumes.

Tri-party repo rates occasionally rising somewhat above the top of the  target range is not concerning because the target range is defined in terms of  the federal funds rate. It is also not unheard of from a historical perspective  as repo rates are inherently more volatile than federal funds rates (
Panel 11
). However, tri-party  repo rates persistently or substantially above the top of the target range  would be more problematic because they could pull up the EFFR and pose  difficulties for rate control. This is why having a ceiling tool like the SRF  is of fundamental importance.

Although the SRF has seen more frequent usage of late, as I said, a  notable amount of repo transactions still have taken place in the market at  rates above the SRF minimum bid rate. Our market outreach suggests that some dealers  may be unwilling to negotiate with money market funds, or divert funding to the  SRF in large size, if repo pressures are moderate and only expected to last for  short periods of time. In part this might be because relationships matter in  the repo market; dealers value the stable funding flows that money market funds  provide, and if the added cost of borrowing from a money market fund at a  somewhat elevated rate is only modest, they may prefer to absorb that cost. This  may change, however, as SRF usage becomes more commonplace—similar to how the  existence of the ON RRP came to provide money market funds with negotiating  leverage when reserves were abundant, and in so doing provided the Fed with very  strong rate control. And even as of now, if repo pressure persisted, or intensified,  I do expect that the SRF will be used more broadly and to a much larger extent,  thus dampening the upward rate pressure. I will have some more thoughts on the  SRF shortly.

Returning to our assessment of reserve conditions, the rate pressures I  mentioned also resulted in notable movement in some of our reserve ampleness  indicators, as shown in the spiderweb chart in 
Panel 12
. The share of repo transactions taking  place at rates above IORB has reached levels seen in late 2018 and 2019. The  share of interbank payments settled late in the day has also shifted out to  late-2018 and 2019 levels as banks have delayed payments, possibly to economize  on reserves. And the share of borrowing in the federal funds market by  domestic banks has increased as well, albeit less so.

The estimated elasticity of the demand curve for reserves has thus far  remained stable.
14
 The  estimation, however, is likely being contaminated by the lagged effects of the  debt limit situation; in the period ahead, we would expect that we will see the  elasticity becoming progressively larger, like it did in 2018 when the federal  funds rate started increasing.

Considered together, higher money market rates, increased SRF usage, and  shifting reserve ampleness indicators are strong evidence that reserves are no  longer abundant. In its May 2022 plans, the Committee stated that it would stop  runoff when reserves were somewhat above an ample level. Consistent with this, the  Committee decided at its most recent meeting to stop runoff effective December 1.

The Path Ahead for the Balance Sheet

I’d now like to discuss what that means in practice for our management  of the SOMA portfolio going forward. Starting in December, the Desk will keep  the size of the SOMA securities portfolio constant by rolling over maturing  Treasury securities at auction and reinvesting principal payments from agency  securities into Treasury bills through secondary market purchases.
15
 This  reinvestment strategy will slowly shift the composition of the SOMA portfolio  toward Treasuries, in line with the Committee’s longer-run objective of a portfolio  consisting primarily of Treasury securities.
16
 Additionally, purchasing bills will move the maturity structure of our Treasury  holdings closer to that of total outstanding Treasury debt. Recall that the  SOMA portfolio is significantly underweight bills and significantly overweight long-term  coupon securities, relative to the Treasury universe.
17
 While  this reinvestment strategy will move the SOMA portfolio toward a more  proportionate composition, it does not preclude any future Committee decisions  around the portfolio’s longer-run composition.

Even as we hold the size of the SOMA portfolio constant, reserves  balances will continue to decline as our non-reserve liabilities, such as currency,  continue to expand with the growth of the economy. All else equal, demand for  reserves is also likely to increase over time as the banking system expands. At some point, therefore, it will be  appropriate to start increasing the size of the SOMA portfolio. The exact  timing will depend on several factors, but, as President Williams said, given  what we know today we probably won’t have to wait long. Of course, organic  growth of the portfolio to accommodate a growing demand for Federal Reserve  liabilities absolutely does not represent a change in the underlying stance of  monetary policy.
18

Why the SRF Is Important

I’d like to conclude with some observations on how the Fed’s operational  framework contributes to the stability of the Treasury market. 

The Fed’s ample reserves regime has functioned very well, promoting effective  rate control over a wide range of economic and financial market conditions. Policy  rate control is of course critical for monetary policy implementation and the  monetary policy transmission process, but it also supports a well-functioning Treasury  market, which is an evergreen area of focus for this audience and conference. 

As I have discussed in the past, the resilience of funding liquidity in  the Treasury repo market is important for the stability and functioning of the  Treasury market, and by extension, most other markets.
19
 One  reason is that levered investors hold a growing portion of Treasury securities and  are key participants in auctions. Some repo rate volatility is not problematic  and is arguably beneficial for allowing markets to send signals on market  conditions. However, if repo funding costs become too volatile and  unpredictable, the likelihood of forced liquidations of repo-financed Treasury  positions increases, and that would create instability in the Treasury cash  market and related market segments. 

The SRF is an essential part of our toolkit that supports the effective  implementation of monetary policy and smooth market functioning, thereby helping  us achieve strong rate control.
20
 Given  the criticality of those aims, it is desirable and fully expected that the SRF  be used whenever it is economically sensible to do so. Our counterparties  participated in large scale in the repo operations that the Federal Reserve  offered in the past; if it makes economic sense, there is no reason why sizeable  participation cannot take place now that repo operations are offered twice  daily on a standing basis. Stable, efficient, and well-functioning repo markets  are in everyone’s best interest and vital for ensuring rate control, and the  SRF is a crucial tool in supporting those objectives.

Thank you again to all involved in this excellent conference.

Presentation
 

1
 I would like  to thank Richard Finlay and Eric LeSueur for their assistance in preparing  these remarks, and Navya Sharma and Zack Youngblood for their assistance with  the presentation. 

2
 The Joint  Member Agencies are the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Board of Governors  of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission, and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading  Commission. In particular, I would like to acknowledge those that supported the  logistics of today’s event, including Veronika Batista, Ellen Correia Golay,  Trevor Graney, Brian Greene, and Jacqueline McInerney. 

 
3
 See Board of  Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
FOMC statement
, October 29,  2025.

 
4
 The repo  market indicator I discuss later makes use of data collected under the  authority of the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Financial Research  (OFR). The views expressed in the speech do not represent the views of the OFR,  the Financial Stability Oversight Council, or the U.S. Department of the  Treasury.

5
 See Board of  Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Statement  Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation and Balance Sheet Normalization
, January 30,  2019. 

 
6
 See Board of  Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Plans for  Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserve’s Balance Sheet
, May 4, 2022.

 
7
 See, for  example, Roberto Perli, 
Balance Sheet  Normalization: Monitoring Reserve Conditions and Understanding Repo Market  Pressures
, remarks at 2024 U.S. Treasury Market Conference, Federal Reserve Bank  of New York, New York City, September 26, 2024.

 
8
 See Roberto  Perli, 
Balance Sheet  Normalization: Monitoring Reserve Conditions and Understanding Repo Market  Pressures
, remarks at 2024 U.S. Treasury Market Conference, Federal Reserve Bank  of New York, New York City, September 26, 2024, and 
Facing  Quarter-End Pressures: Understanding the Repo Market and Federal Reserve Tools
, remarks at  New York University Stern School of Business, New York City, November 12, 2024.

 
9
 See Board of  Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
FOMC statement
, May 1, 2024,  and 
FOMC statement
, March 19,  2025.

 
10
 See Roberto  Perli, 
Current Issues  in Monetary Policy Implementation
, remarks before the Money Marketeers of New  York University, New York City, March 5, 2025.

11
 The Treasury manages the TGA in accordance with its stated  policy of holding enough cash to cover one-week-ahead needs. See discussion  of the Treasury’s cash management policy in U.S. Department of the  Treasury, 
Remarks by PDO  Assistant Secretary McMaster Before the 2025 Annual Primary Dealer Meeting at  the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
, September 29, 2025. 

 
12
 The  Committee’s operating target is the federal funds rate, and its mandate is to  achieve maximum employment and stable prices. Changes in the target range  transmit readily to EFFR and other money market rates. A robust link between the  EFFR and other money market rates is the first step of the monetary policy transmission  process.

 
13
 For more  information on the dynamics of the federal funds market, see Gara Afonso,  Gonzalo Cisternas, Brian Gowen, Jason Miu, and Joshua Younger, 
Who’s Borrowing  and Lending in the Fed Funds Market Today?
, Federal Reserve Bank of New York Liberty  Street Economics, October 10, 2023.

 
14
 See 
Reserve Demand  Elasticity
, Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

15
 See Federal  Reserve Bank of New York, 
Statement  Regarding Reinvestment of Principal Payments from Treasury Securities and  Agency Securities
, October 29, 2025. 

16
 See Board of  Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Principles for  Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet
, January 26,  2022.

17
 See, for  example, Roberto Perli, 
Current Issues  in Monetary Policy Implementation
, remarks before the Money Marketeers of New  York University, New York City, March 5, 2025.

18
 See John  Williams, 
Next Level  Unlocked
, remarks at 2025 U.S. Treasury Market Conference, Federal Reserve Bank  of New York, New York City, November 12, 2025.

19
 See Roberto  Perli, 
Recent  Developments in Treasury Market Liquidity and Funding Conditions
, remarks at  the 8th Short-Term Funding Markets Conference, Federal Reserve Board,  Washington, DC, May 9, 2025.

20
 See, for  example, Gara Afonso, Lorie Logan, Antoine Martin, William Riordan, and  Patricia Zobel, 
The Fed's  Latest Tool: A Standing Repo Facility
, Federal Reserve Bank of New York Liberty  Street Economics, January 13, 2022.

By continuing to use our site, you agree to our 
Terms of Use
 and 
Privacy Statement
. You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our 
Privacy Statement
.   

Request a Speaker

International Seminars & Training

Governance & Culture Reform

Data Visualization

Economic Research 
Tracker

Markets Data APIs

Podcast

Contact Us

Terms of Use

Privacy

Site Map

