

Balance Sheet Reduction and Ample Reserves - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK

Speech

Balance Sheet Reduction and Ample Reserves

        September 29, 2025
  

Julie Remache
    , Deputy SOMA Manager and Head of Market and Portfolio Analysis on the Open Market Trading Desk
    
  

    Remarks at the 2025 Annual Primary Dealer Meeting, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, New York City
    
As prepared for delivery

Introduction

Good morning, and  welcome to our Annual Primary Dealer Meeting.
1
 Primary  dealers are core to the New York Fed’s mission and the work of the Open Market  Trading Desk (the Desk).
2
 We rely on our interactions with primary dealers to implement monetary policy  at the direction of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). We also draw on  the market knowledge of primary dealers and other market participants, via  hundreds of outreach meetings each FOMC cycle, to help us better understand  market developments.
3
 The insights we gain from this outreach are relayed to the FOMC and ultimately  lead to more informed policymaking and better economic outcomes. More detail on  how and why we conduct market outreach, and how we use the intelligence that we  gather, can be found on our Market Intelligence web page, which we recently  updated.
4
 

Today, unsurprisingly,  I will focus on the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet and the ongoing transition from  a level of abundant reserves to a level of ample reserves. I’ll review the role  of the balance sheet in our monetary policy implementation framework and the  major liabilities influencing balance sheet size over time. And I’ll conclude  with some perspectives on the path ahead for money markets and the balance  sheet as we approach ample reserves. 

Before  proceeding further, I will offer the usual disclaimer: these views are my own,  and not necessarily those of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or the  Federal Reserve System. 

The Balance  Sheet in an Ample Reserves Framework

Like many other  advanced economy central banks, the Federal Reserve is in the process of  shrinking its balance sheet following its material expansion during the  pandemic. Recall that from 2020 to early 2022, the Federal Reserve added a  significant amount of assets to its balance sheet to support the economy and  the smooth functioning of financial markets (
Panel 1
). Those asset purchases expanded the  supply of reserves to a level above ample, and increased balances in the  overnight reverse repo (ON RRP) facility (
Panel 2
). While this abundant supply of banking  system liquidity did not pose any problems for monetary policy implementation, it  was not necessary to effectively control short-term interest rates. So, as instructed  by the FOMC, the Desk has been shrinking the balance sheet since June 2022 in  order to transition from abundant to ample reserves.
5

The FOMC adopted  its ample reserves framework in January 2019, describing this monetary policy  implementation regime as one in which “control over the level of the federal  funds rate and other short-term interest rates is exercised primarily through  the setting of the Federal Reserve's administered rates, and in which active management of  the supply of reserves is not required.”
6
  

Leading up to  that decision, the FOMC considered a wide range of possible operational  frameworks, and came to the conclusion that operating with ample reserves—the  framework de facto in place since 2008—had a number of advantages.
7
 That decision has served us well: despite some turbulence over the years, this  framework has enabled us to maintain very good rate control and has supported  the resiliency of both the banking sector and the Treasury market.
8

The Committee  has indicated that it intends to stop balance sheet runoff when reserves are  somewhat above an ample level, and then allow reserves to continue to fall  toward ample organically as other liabilities grow.
9

Our balance  sheet has fallen from the equivalent of around 35 percent of GDP, in early 2022,  to around 22 percent of GDP now. This is a substantial reduction, and it leaves  the balance sheet, as a share of GDP, close to its pre-pandemic level (
Panel 3
).
10
 It’s difficult to know exactly when we will reach ample, but as our balance  sheet shrinks we get closer to that point. 

It’s also  important to remember that part of the role of a central bank is to use its  balance sheet to supply the money—in the form of central bank liabilities—that society  wants and needs.
11
 The  three major liabilities here are physical currency (Federal Reserve notes); the  Treasury General Account (TGA), which is essentially the Treasury Department’s “checking  account” at the Fed; and reserves (see Panel 2). Together these liabilities equate to about  90 percent of the Fed’s current balance sheet (or 20 percent of GDP)—and should  grow in dollar terms over time as the economy expands.

Taking each in  turn, the Federal Reserve needs to meet demand for currency. It is a key  responsibility of the Federal Reserve to issue banknotes—the paper money you  may hold in your wallet—and it does so on demand when banks request currency,  by converting reserves into banknotes. So, from a practical standpoint, the  amount of currency outstanding is not within the Federal Reserve’s control.

Likewise, the size  of the TGA is determined by the Treasury, and is not within the Federal  Reserve’s control.  For risk management  reasons, the Treasury has chosen to hold enough cash to cover one-week-ahead  cash needs.
12
 At  times, such as during the pandemic, the Treasury has held even higher cash  balances for precautionary reasons.
13
 The Treasury could in principle hold  less cash at the Federal Reserve, as was the case prior to 2008.
14
 But one downside of this earlier arrangement was the risk and operational  burden faced by the Treasury. The shift to an ample reserves framework allowed  the Treasury to maintain its full balance at the Federal Reserve without  compromising the Fed’s ability to control the policy rate. 

The other major  liability is reserves, which currently stand at around $3 trillion. Banks consider  a range of factors when deciding on the level of reserves that they wish to  hold, including market conditions, financial incentives, and their ability to make  payments and fund outflows in both normal times and during stress.

When liquidity  in the banking system is very high, banks feel less need to compete  aggressively for funds. In this case, liquidity naturally migrates from the  banking sector to other intermediaries, including money market funds, in search  of higher returns. In terms of balance sheet mechanics, this results in lower reserve  balances and higher balances at the ON RRP.
15
 The ON RRP was very large for a time, but has recently shrunk to de minimis  levels. In conjunction with interest on reserve balances (IORB), the ability of  the ON RRP to increase to accommodate excess liquidity and to shrink as  liquidity is withdrawn from the system has been vital in ensuring strong rate  control.

An essentially  empty ON RRP, as is the case now, indicates that banks wish to hold the  entirety of liquidity supplied by the Fed at the current constellation of money  market rates. As the Fed’s balance sheet shrinks further, the opportunity cost  of holding reserves—the spread between money market rates and IORB—will  presumably need to rise modestly to keep the market in equilibrium. One feature  of an ample reserves framework is that this opportunity cost is low, with money  market rates close to IORB. That is, banks do not face a material disincentive  to hold reserves.
16
 Policymakers have noted that this aspect of ample reserves could enhance financial  stability and reduce operational risks in the payment system.
17
 

A critical  aspect of any central bank operating framework is the ability to maintain  strong interest rate control. Our current implementation framework has proven  very effective at controlling overnight rates (
Panel 4
). We have been able to keep the effective  federal funds rate (EFFR) within the Committee’s target range through a wide  range of economic and financial market conditions, without needing to precisely  forecast day-to-day changes in reserve demand and so-called autonomous factors,  which would be challenging in the current environment.
18
 In fact, the effectiveness, robustness, and simplicity of ample reserves  frameworks across different conditions is a major reason why most advanced  economy central banks have adopted and use them.

Relatedly,  supplying an ample level of reserves reduces the risk of unexpected and disruptive  spikes in money market rates, since more liquidity in the system facilitates smoother  intermediation between overnight borrowers and lenders. For banks specifically,  holding sufficient reserves to cover both expected daily payment flows and more  unusual situations means they are less likely to be caught short of funds and  need to bid aggressively for cash. As a counter-example, when reserves fell below  an ample level in September 2019, money market rates spiked upward (
Panel 5
).
19
 

Importantly, many  investors and market participants rely on money markets, especially repo  markets, to finance their Treasury security holdings. For primary dealers, this  activity supports market-making and therefore Treasury market liquidity and  functioning. Other investors buy Treasury securities, financed in repo, for their  return or as part of a trading strategy. For all, predictable financing costs support  the ability to purchase Treasuries, while volatile and unpredictable repo rates  increase risks that investors face in financing their Treasury holdings. All  else equal, greater financing risk would result in higher Treasury yields, tighter  financial conditions, and a headwind for the economy.  

The Path Ahead

While an ample  supply of reserves reduces the risk of unexpected and disruptive money market volatility,  it does not eliminate volatility. IORB provides a solid anchor for  rates in an ample reserves framework, but money market rates still vary, and tend to rise on key reporting dates, including quarter ends, as banks optimize their balance  sheets. This phenomenon is—within limits—normal, not concerning, and exactly  what we expect as we continue to normalize our balance sheet. We see somewhat similar  dynamics on days when a large volume of reserves flows from the banking sector  to the government, including days with large tax payments or a high volume of Treasury  security issuance. Again, within limits, we consider these dynamics normal and not  concerning.

To the extent  that temporary strains in money markets do appear and pressure overnight rates  higher, the Fed’s Standing Repo Facility (SRF) is there to dampen the pressure.  It is a key part of our monetary policy implementation toolkit; like the ON  RRP, it was designed to support rate control across different market environments.  The ON RRP helps ensure that the EFFR does not fall below the bottom of the Committee’s  target range, while the SRF helps prevent the EFFR from rising above the top of  the target range. The SRF has been much less extensively used than the ON RRP  to date, since reserves have been abundant over recent years. But as reserve  levels fall this is shifting somewhat, with the SRF used at the recent June  quarter end and at the mid-September tax date. On those occasions it worked  consistent with its design, providing funds into the market when market rates rose  above the SRF minimum bid rate. By doing so, the SRF can stem incipient rate  pressure that, if left unaddressed, could threaten rate control. The SRF can even  be effective in dampening rate pressure without being used, if it alters the relative  bargaining power of repo market participants.

As an aside, and  as argued recently by President Williams, effective ceiling tools can also  reduce the amount of reserves needed to operate an ample reserves  framework.
20
 From a counterparty’s perspective, if it knows that it can rely on the SRF to source  funds if needed, it can safely hold a smaller buffer of reserves just in case  something unexpected occurs. And from the Federal Reserve’s perspective, an  effective ceiling tool means we do not need to supply extra reserves via asset  purchases just in case a possible but unlikely shock to reserve supply or  demand might threaten rate control.
21

Our indicators currently  suggest that reserves are still abundant.
22
 But we have observed some firming of repo rates recently, in part due to the  increase in bill supply after the debt ceiling resolution, and continued  pressures are likely over time given ongoing Fed balance sheet reduction. We have  also started to see some movement in the distribution of federal funds transactions  in response to higher repo rates—which is a healthy sign of market linkages,  and exactly what we would expect. Most recently, this has translated to a one-basis-point  increase in the EFFR relative to IORB.

Observing a more  substantial shift in the EFFR relative to IORB, and changes in our set of reserve  ampleness indicators, would be consistent with transitioning from abundant  toward a more ample level of reserves. The Committee has indicated that it will  consider stopping balance sheet runoff when we reach that point. After that,  growth in the economy will naturally result in increasing demand for Federal  Reserve liabilities, including currency and reserves. When market conditions  suggest reserves are ample, we will provide those liabilities by beginning to  grow our balance sheet once again. At that point, the Committee would direct  the Desk to resume purchases of Treasuries for the SOMA portfolio to maintain  an ample level of reserves.

We will use a  broad range of information, including quantitative market signals, survey  responses, and market intelligence—notably from our primary dealers—to inform  an assessment of reserve conditions and support FOMC decisions on the balance  sheet.

Presentation
 

 
1
 I  would like to thank Richard Finlay and Eric LeSueur for their assistance in  preparing these remarks, and Navya Sharma and Zack Youngblood for their  assistance with the presentation. 

 
2
 See  Roberto Perli, 
Balance  Sheet Reduction: Progress to Date and a Look Ahead
, remarks at 2024 Annual  Primary Dealer Meeting, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, New York City, May 8,  2024.

 
3
 See  Roberto Perli, 
Market  Intelligence and the Monetary Policy Process
, remarks at the Deutsche  Bundesbank – Representative Office New York, New York City, September 24, 2024.

 
4
 See 
Market  Intelligence
, Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

 
5
 See  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Plans  for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserve’s Balance Sheet
, May 4, 2022.

 
6
 See  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Statement Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation and Balance  Sheet Normalization
, January 30,  2019.

 
7
 The  FOMC’s discussion of monetary policy implementation frameworks is summarized in  the minutes of the 
November 2018
, 
December 2018
, and 
January 2019
 FOMC  meetings. Supporting documents and transcripts of those FOMC meetings are also  available on the Board of Governors website.

 
8
 See discussion of the ample reserves framework and funding market resilience in  Roberto Perli, 
Recent  Developments in Treasury Market Liquidity and Funding Conditions
, remarks  at the 8th Short-Term Funding Markets Conference, Federal Reserve Board,  Washington, DC, May 9, 2025.

 
9
 See  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Plans  for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserve’s Balance Sheet
, May 4, 2022.

 
10
 It  is natural to measure the size of our balance sheet as a share of GDP, rather  than in dollar terms, as, all else equal, a larger economy means more demand  for currency and a larger banking sector requiring more reserves.

 
11
 See,  for example, Julie Remache, 
Balance  Sheet Basics, Progress, and Future State
, remarks at Fixed Income Analysts  Society, Inc. Women in Fixed Income Conference, Federal Reserve Bank of New  York, New York City, February 7, 2024. 

 
12
 See U.S. Department of the Treasury, 
Quarterly Refunding Statement of Acting  Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets Seth B. Carpenter 
,  May 6, 2015. See additional details on the Treasury’s cash management  approach in 
Treasury  Borrowing Advisory Committee Discussion Charts
, Q1 2022, and 
Minutes of the  Meeting of the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee February 1, 2022
.

 
13
 See, for example, U.S. Department of the Treasury,
 Quarterly  Refunding Statement of Deputy Assistant Secretary for Federal Finance Brian  Smith
, May 6, 2020.

 
14
 See Paul J. Santoro, 
The  Evolution of Treasury Cash Management during the Financial Crisis
, Federal  Reserve Bank of New York 
Current Issues in Economics and Finance
, April  2012.

 
15
 The ON RRP provides an outlet for abundant liquidity in the system and can  reduce pressures on bank balance sheets arising from an increase in reserves  associated with large-scale Fed asset purchases. See Gara Afonso, Lorie Logan,  Antoine Martin, William Riordan, and Patricia Zobel, 
How  the Fed’s Overnight Reverse Repo Facility Works
, Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
Liberty Street Economics
, January 11, 2022.

 
16
 See  Paolo Cavallino, Mathias Drehmann, Richard Finlay and Julie Remache, 
Monetary policy  operational frameworks - a new taxonomy
, Quarterly BIS review, September  15, 2025, for a discussion of how the marginal opportunity cost of holding  reserves influences bank decision making and market outcomes.

 
17
 See  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Minutes  of the Federal Open Market Committee, November 7-8, 2018
.

 
18
 Since the formal adoption of the Fed’s ample reserves framework in January  2019, the EFFR has been outside the target range only one day.

 
19
 See,  for example, Gara Afonso, Marco Cipriani, Adam Copeland, Anna Kovner, Gabriele  La Spada, and Antoine Martin, 
The  Market Events of Mid-September 2019
, Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Economic  Policy Review
, August 2021, and Sriya Anbil, Alyssa Anderson, and Zeynep  Senyuz, 
What  Happened in Money Markets in September 2019?
, FEDS Notes, Board of  Governors of the Federal Reserve System, February 27, 2020. 

 
20
 See  John C. Williams, 
On the  Optimal Supply of Reserves
, remarks at the New York Fed – Columbia SIPA  Monetary Policy Implementation Workshop, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, New  York City, May 22, 2025. Similar arguments have been made by other central  banks that operate facilities to elastically supply reserves at a fixed price;  see, for example, Andrew Bailey, 
The  importance of central bank reserves
, May 21, 2024, Isabel Schnabel, 
The  Eurosystem’s operational framework
, March 14, 2024, and Christopher Kent, 
The Future  System for Monetary Policy Implementation
, April 2, 2024. 

 
21
 The  SRF is one of several facilities operated by the Federal Reserve to support  rate control and financial market function. See Patrick Dwyer, Eric LeSueur,  Fabiola Ravazzolo, Will Riordan, and Josh Younger, 
The  Federal Reserve’s Standing Liquidity Facilities
, August 7, 2024.

 
22
 See discussion of these indicators in past speeches by Roberto Perli, for  example: 
Balance  Sheet Normalization: Monitoring Reserve Conditions and Understanding Repo  Market Pressures
, remarks at 2024 U.S. Treasury Market Conference, Federal  Reserve Bank of New York, New York City, September 26, 2024.
 

By continuing to use our site, you agree to our 
Terms of Use
 and 
Privacy Statement
. You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our 
Privacy Statement
.   

Request a Speaker

International Seminars & Training

Governance & Culture Reform

Data Visualization

Economic Research 
Tracker

Markets Data APIs

Podcast

Contact Us

Terms of Use

Privacy

Site Map

