
===== PAGE 1 =====
Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jedc 
The ﬁnancial market effects of unwinding the Federal 
Reserve’s balance sheet /p82 
A. Lee Smith a , Victor J. Valcarcel b , ∗
a Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 1 Memorial Dr. Kansas City, MO 64198 
b University of Texas at Dallas 800 W. Campbell Rd. Richardson, TX 75080 
a r t i c l e i n f o 
Article history: 
Received 23 June 2022 
Revised 24 October 2022 
Accepted 1 December 2022 
Available online 5 December 2022 
JEL classiﬁcation: 
E3 
E4 
E5 
Keywords: 
Monetary policy 
Balance sheet 
Announcement effect 
Liquidity effect 
Event study 
Structural VAR 
Financial conditions 
a b s t r a c t 
Twice in a brief 12-year period between 2008 and 2020, central banks turned to asset 
purchase programs to combat a global economic downturn. While balance sheet expan- 
sions have become familiar and been widely studied, balance sheet normalization is less 
well understood. This paper provides a ﬁrst analysis of the ﬁnancial market effects of bal- 
ance sheet normalization based on the U.S. experience between 2017 and 2019. We ﬁnd 
evidence that unwinding past asset purchases tightens ﬁnancial conditions. However, we 
show that these effects cannot be merely portrayed as quantitative easing in reverse . In par- 
ticular, we ﬁnd that balance sheet normalization generally lacked the large announcement 
effects that characterized quantitative easing. Instead, the effects of normalization man- 
ifested upon implementation and surfaced, in part, through larger liquidity effects than 
were evident during various phases of balance sheet expansion. 
©2 0 2 2 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. 
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license 
( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ) 
1. Introduction 
Central bank balance sheets now play a central role in monetary policy. The COVID-19 pandemic serves as a case in point. 
In March 2020, as the coronavirus spread across the globe, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) initiated Treasury 
and agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) purchases at a rapid pace. Other central banks, including the European Central 
Bank, the Bank of England, and the Bank of Japan, carried out similar actions. While balance sheet reduction has proven less 
common, several central banks have signaled an intent to eventually reduce their balance sheets (see Bailey, 2020; Powell, 
2020 ). Thus, knowledge of the effects of unwinding the central bank’s balance sheet is essential for informed decisions 
regarding the provision and withdrawal of policy accommodation via the central bank’s balance sheet. 
/p82 We thank Juan F. Rubio-Ramírez, Jun Nie, Brent Bundick, Yuriy Gorodnichenko, and anonymous referees for constructive comments. We also thank 
participants’ comments at the 2022 North American Summer Meeting of the Econometric Society, the International Association for Applied Econometrics 
(IAAE) 2022 Annual Conference, and the Society for Economic Measurement (SEM) 2022 Annual Conference. Logan Hotz provided excellent research as- 
sistance and we thank CADRE for computational support. A portion of this work was completed while Valcarcel was visiting the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City. The views expressed herein are solely those of the authors and do not necessarily reﬂect the views of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
or the Federal Reserve System. 
∗ Corresponding author. 
E-mail addresses: andrew.smith@kc.frb.org (A.L. Smith), victor.valcarcel@utdallas.edu (V.J. Valcarcel) . 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jedc.2022.104582 
0165-1889/© 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license 
( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ) 
===== PAGE 2 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Fig. 1. The Changing Liquidity Effect Between Reserves and the (FF-IOR) Spread . Note: The (solid) blue line denotes the rolling regression estimate of 
the liquidity effect obtained by regressing the spread between the federal funds rate and the interest rate paid on reserves on a constant and the natural 
log of reserve balances. This estimate is ﬂanked by a 90% conﬁdence interval. For this regression estimate, the date on the x-axis denotes the end point 
of a 208-week rolling window. We choose 208 periods because we have roughly four years of data prior to the onset of the balance sheet normalization 
period. The ﬁrst vertical (dashed) line corresponds with the end of the QE III period and the beginning of the Full Reinvestment phase of the balance sheet 
unwind period (2014-Q3). The (dashed-dotted) vertical line in the middle of the chart acts as a line of demarcation between the Full Reinvestment and 
Asset Runoff phases within the normalization period. The rightmost (dotted) vertical line denotes the end of the balance sheet normalization period. (For 
interpretation of the references to colour in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) 
Despite its importance, there is scant empirical analysis of the broad ﬁnancial market effects of unwinding the central 
bank’s balance sheet. However, such independent investigations may be unnecessary if the process of balance sheet reduc- 
tion, typically dubbed quantitative tightening (QT), simply works as quantitative easing (QE) in reverse. For instance, based 
on event study estimates, if the effects of expanding and shrinking the central bank’s balance sheet were symmetric then 
we could assume that reducing the central bank’s balance sheet has no effect on short-term interest rates but increases 
longer-term bond yields. Based on the existing QE literature, one may further assume that these yield increases materialize 
upon the announcement of policymakers’ plans for reducing its balance sheet. 
We, however, present evidence of strong asymmetries between balance sheet expansions and unwinds based on the 
Federal Reserve’s 2017–2019 experience with balance sheet reduction. A core source of these asymmetries originates in the 
market for bank reserves, as is evident by visible changes in the magnitude of the liquidity effects across balance sheet 
expansion and normalization. Figure 1 superimposes reserve balances on top of a simple estimate of the liquidity effect 
from a rolling-window regression of the federal funds rate (less the interest rate paid on reserves) on a constant and the log 
of reserve balances. Liquidity effects appeared relatively muted during the 2009–2014 balance sheet expansion. This period 
is marked by the natural lower bound that zero placed under short-term interest rates despite rapid growth in reserves. 
Nevertheless, during the QT period from October 2017 through August 2019 bank reserves declined from more than $2.0 
trillion toward $1.4 trillion amid a more than $650 billion reduction in the Federal Reserve’s asset holdings. It is during this 
period that the magnitude of the liquidity effect roughly doubles. 
In addition to differences in the liquidity effect, we also show that the large announcement effects that accompanied as- 
set purchases were largely absent from the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet normalization effort. This asymmetry appears 
to stem in part from the concerted effort of the FOMC to divorce expectations of future rate increases from unwind- 
ing the balance sheet, especially after the “taper tantrum” episode. This resulted in signaling effects being mostly absent 
from QT announcements, a sharp contrast from QE announcements that typically contained a large signaling component 
( Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen, 2011 ). Numerous other differences amplify the distinction between the Federal Re- 
serve’s balance sheet expansion and unwind. Balance sheet reduction ensued at a materially slower pace than balance sheet 
expansion since assets were not actually sold but rather allowed to mature without replacement. Moreover, balance sheet 
normalization took place against a backdrop of relative calm, whereas asset purchases were carried out amid severe ﬁnan- 
cial strains. And, unlike QE episodes where central banks were easing in unison, QT was carried out in isolation in the U.S., 
while other major central banks were maintaining or expanding the size of their balance sheets ( Dilts-Stedman, 2019 ). 
2 
===== PAGE 3 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
In light of the markedly different nature of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet normalization, this paper aims to provide 
a ﬁrst quantitative assessment of the ﬁnancial market effects of balance sheet unwind. To assess the importance of an- 
nouncement effects regarding QT, we ﬁrst carry out a high-frequency event study on the ﬁnancial market impact of Federal 
Reserve communication related to normalizing its balance sheet. We then employ a novel structural vector autoregression 
(VAR) identiﬁcation scheme, which leverages weekly Federal Reserve balance sheet data, to detect the effects of balance 
sheet normalization on ﬁnancial markets that may have manifested upon implementation. The Federal Reserve’s sequencing 
of policy actions leads us to focus on two distinct periods. From 2014-Q4 through 2017-Q3, the Federal Reserve reinvested 
proceeds of maturing securities. This Full Reinvestment phase resulted in declining reserves without a commensurate de- 
cline in asset holdings. Then, beginning in 2017-Q4 until 2019-Q3, the Federal Reserve purchased fewer assets than were 
maturing. This Asset Runoff phase resulted in declines of both reserves and asset holdings. 
Time-varying and constant-parameter structural VAR models reveal evidence that during the Asset Runoff sample, reduc- 
tions in reserve balances and asset holdings led to tighter ﬁnancial conditions. This tightening is characterized by relatively 
large liquidity effects on short-term rates, higher yields on Treasury notes, mortgage securities, and corporate bonds, as well 
as an appreciation in the foreign-exchange value of the dollar, which gradually fade over several months. We conclude that—
even in the absence of announcement effects—unwinding  the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet tightened ﬁnancial conditions. 
However, this tightening transmits in a different fashion than merely a QE policy in reverse. 
2. Balance sheet unwind transmission channels 
A combination of credit and liquidity facilities, together with a sequence of three large-scale asset purchase (LSAP) pro- 
grams, swelled the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet to nearly $5 trillion in 2014 from less than $1 trillion in the years prior to 
the Global Financial Crisis. These purchases were largely funded through commensurate increases in bank reserves. Figure 2 a 
and b show the evolution of the Federal Reserve’s liabilities and assets through these various phases of balance sheet ex- 
pansion and unwind. While the credit and liquidity facilities unwound rather naturally as the crisis abated, the same cannot 
be said for the long-duration Treasury and mortgage securities acquired through various QE programs. 
Further normalization of the balance sheet required adjustments in reserves management and asset reinvestment policy. 
On the liability side of the balance sheet, normalization took place through decreases in reserve balances. From October 
2014 through September 2017, reductions in reserves were accompanied by corresponding increases in currency and other 
non-reserve liabilities. As the FOMC fully reinvested the proceeds of maturing securities, the overall size of the balance sheet 
remained largely unchanged. Then beginning in October 2017, as a fraction of maturing securities were allowed to runoff
each month, reserves began to decline along with the size of the balance sheet. These reserve dynamics are illustrated in 
Fig. 2 a. From October 2017 through August 2019, asset holdings declined by roughly $650 billion with reductions in both 
Treasury and agency debt as well as MBS holdings, as illustrated in Fig. 2 b. The multiple dimensions across which the 
balance sheet was evolving during this period suggests ﬁnancial markets could be affected in a number of ways. 
Reductions in reserves may put upward pressures on short-term interest rates via a classic liquidity effect. The model in 
Ireland (2014) , however, predicts that the Federal Reserve’s 2008 adoption of interest payments on reserve balances could 
eliminate liquidity effects. The primary mechanism behind that conclusion is arbitrage incentives, which should drive the 
federal funds rate toward the interest rate paid on reserves (IOR) regardless of the level of reserve balances. Despite this 
persuasive intuition, the federal funds market has proven to be fairly segmented. Arbitrage appears to be costly, leading to 
persistent and sometimes negative spreads between the federal funds rate and the IOR rate. Moreover, Smith (2019) and 
Martin et al. (2019) ﬁnd evidence that this spread correlates negatively with reserves, indicating that liquidity effects re- 
mained under the Federal Reserve’s post-2008 operating framework. However, the question remains whether liquidity ef- 
fects strengthened after reserve balances stopped growing and began to decline. 
We can explore changes in the strength of the liquidity effect by studying the relationship between (the natural log of) 
bank reserves ( RES t ) and the opportunity cost of holding reserves—the  federal funds rate less the IOR—using  the reduced- 
form regression: 
F F t − IOR t = α+ β∗100 ∗lo g(RES t ) + ε t . (1) 
The magnitude of the coeﬃcient β in this regression provides a reduced-form measure of the strength of the liquidity 
effect. 1 During the balance sheet expansion period (2009-Q1 to 2014-Q3), this regression yields a signiﬁcantly negative 
relationship between reserves and the FF-IOR spread with β = −0 . 086 ( s.e. = 0 . 009 ). Then, during the balance sheet nor- 
malization period (2014-Q4 to 2019-Q3), we ﬁnd the magnitude of the coeﬃcient on reserves increases to β = −0 . 299 
( s.e. = 0 . 015 ). This strengthening of the liquidity effect summarizes the salient movements of the rolling window estimates 
of this regression shown in Fig. 1 . Figure 3 scatters the FF-IOR spread against bank reserves across these two samples and 
corroborates a visible strengthening of the pass-through from reserves to the federal funds rate spread during balance sheet 
normalization. 2 
1 From December 2008 through August 2019, shifts in aggregate reserve balances were not effectively targeting the federal funds rate ( F F t ). Therefore, 
regressions of this form are unlikely to be biased by endogeneity concerns. 
2 Importantly, the increases in the liquidity effect that we document here and in our structural VAR models were building well ahead of the visible 
and highly-publicized liquidity-driven rise in repo rates that occurred in September 2019. Several recent studies have focused on the factors contributing 
3 
===== PAGE 4 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Fig. 2. The Federal Reserve’s Balance Sheet: 2007–2019. Source: Federal Reserve Board. 
Our reduced-form analysis suggests liquidity effects may have played a more prominent role during the balance sheet 
normalization period than they played during balance sheet expansion. This asymmetry can perhaps be attributed to the 
to that episode. Copeland et al. (2021) argue that reserve reductions among the 10 largest bank holding companies created payment timing stresses that 
contributed to the September 2019 repo rate spike. Anbil et al. (2021) document that market segmentation prevented arbitrage across repo markets, which 
somewhat accentuated the September 2019 repo rate spike. Finally, Afonso et al. (2020) argue that both lower reserve levels and costly arbitrage led to the 
September 2019 repo rate spike. We emphasize that our period of study ends ahead of the September 2019 repo rate spike, which we conservatively omit 
due to endogeneity concerns regarding aggregate reserve dynamics following that episode. 
4 
===== PAGE 5 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Fig. 3. The Liquidity Effect in Balance Sheet Expansions and Unwinds. 
Federal Reserve’s toolkit for managing short-term interest rates. Amid balance sheet expansion, multiple forces hemmed in 
the extent to which an explicit liquidity effect could be gleaned. These included the natural lower bound that zero placed 
under short-term interest rates and the Federal Reserve’s deployment of the reverse-repo facility to support the federal 
funds rate from below. Throughout the period of balance sheet expansion, these forces limited the amount by which short- 
term interest rates could decline as reserve balances grew. However, there were no such forces to prevent upward pressure 
on short-term interest rates from emerging as reserve balances declined throughout the balance sheet unwind period. This 
allows for a potentially larger degree of pass-through from reserves to interest rates, particularly from a lower base level of 
reserves, during a QT episode. 
The reduction of asset holdings that accompanied declining reserve balances during balance sheet normalization could 
also affect asset prices via similar channels through which asset purchases are thought to primarily work, including signal- 
ing and duration channels. The signaling channel of asset purchases has been emphasized in Krishnamurthy and Vissing- 
Jorgensen (2011) , Bauer and Rudebusch (2014) , and Bhattarai et al. (2015) . Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2011) and 
Bauer and Rudebusch (2014) , in particular, argue that the predominant factor driving the observed reductions in longer-term 
yields following QE announcements was downward revisions to expectations for the future path of policy rates. Therefore, 
shrinking the balance sheet could conversely signal that tighter policy is forthcoming and lead to higher longer-term yields 
due to upward revisions to expectations of the future path of policy rates. 
Gagnon et al. (2011) instead interpret the observed reductions in Treasury, mortgage, and corporate yields around LSAP 
announcements as arising from broad duration effects. By purchasing a large amount of longer-term assets, the Federal 
Reserve reduced the amount of duration that the private sector was asked to bear. The runoff of assets from the Federal 
Reserve’s balance sheet effectively transfers that duration back onto investors’ balance sheets, which could increase risk- 
and term-premiums. Moreover, increasing the public supply of Treasury and mortgage securities could lead to a reversal of 
any portfolio rebalancing effects, a channel postulated by Vayanos and Vila (2021) in explaining the theoretical underpin- 
nings for asset purchases. This mechanism was empirically emphasized by D’Amico et al. (2012) , D’Amico and King (2013) , 
Carpenter et al. (2015) , and Ihrig et al. (2018) . Thus, based on the arguments and evidence in favor of duration-associated 
portfolio rebalancing effects, reducing the balance sheet and transferring duration back into the private sector could increase 
longer-term interest rates across a range of assets. 
However, there is also reason to believe that reductions in asset holdings would have smaller and more limited ef- 
fects than did asset purchases. For instance, D’Amico and King (2013) predict that rebalancing effects could be attenuated 
upon normalization, if conducted in an environment of improved market functioning. Moreover, any effects that emerge 
from unwinding past asset purchases should be conﬁned to those assets that the Federal Reserve purchased. In particular, 
Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2013) propose that, aside from signaling effects, the relative transfer of Treasuries 
and MBS back into the hands of private investors should have concentrated effects on Treasury and MBS rates, with few 
spillovers to other assets. 
5
===== PAGE 6 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Table 1 
Quantitative Easing and Tightening Announcement Effects on Yields and 
Asset Prices. 
Cumulative Response to QE & QT Announcements (pp) 
10-yr. Treas. MBS 8-Qtr Eurodollar 
QE Events [ a ] -1.49 ∗∗∗ -3.70 ∗∗∗ -1.00 ∗∗∗
(0.20) (0.34) (0.25) 
QT Events [ b] 0.28 0.46 0.41 
(0.22) (0.38) (0.28) 
[a] Coeﬃcients βQE from the regression: /Delta1y t = βQE Q E t + βQT Q T t + ε t , 
where /Delta1y t is the two-day change in the yield and QE t is a dummy variable, 
which takes a value of 1/9 on the nine QE dates described in Table 2 . [b] 
Coeﬃcients βQT from the regression: /Delta1y t = βQE Q E t + βQT Q T t + ε t , where 
/Delta1y t is the two-day change in the yield and QT t is a dummy variable, which 
takes a value of 1/11 on the 11 QT dates described in Table 3 . Notes: OLS 
standard errors are reported in parenthesis. Sample Period: January 2008 –
December 2018. Observations: 4016. ∗∗∗p < 0 . 01 , ∗∗p < 0 . 05 , ∗p < 0 . 10 . 
Table 2 
Quantitative Easing Announcements. 
Date Announcement Event Source 
No. 25, 2008 [ a ] QE 1 FOMC Meeting Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2011) 
Dec 1, 2008 [ a ] QE 1 Speech Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2011) 
Dec 16, 2008 [ a ] QE 1 FOMC Meeting Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2011) 
Jan 28, 2009 [ a ] QE 1 FOMC Meeting Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2011) 
Mar 18, 2009 [ a ] QE 1 FOMC Meeting Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2011) 
Aug 10, 2010 [ a ] QE 2 FOMC Meeting Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2011) 
Sep 21, 2010 [ a ] QE 2 FOMC Meeting Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2011) 
Sep 21, 2011 [ b] MEP FOMC Meeting Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2013) 
Sep 13, 2012 QE 3 FOMC Meeting Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2013) 
[a] See also Woodford (2012) for a description of these events. [b] Note: MEP denotes Maturity Extension 
Program. 
Our preliminary evidence suggests that the strength of these signaling and duration effects were indeed less pronounced 
during QT compared with QE. Importantly, both signaling and duration effects em phasize the role of expectations and, 
therefore, the evidence in favor of these channels primarily stems from event studies around policy announcements. Table 1 
presents comparative evidence of the response of Treasury, MBS, and Eurodollar-implied interest rate expectations following 
QE and QT announcements. Consistent with the QE literature discussed above, we ﬁnd QE announcements led to mean- 
ingful cumulative declines in longer-term Treasury and MBS rates across a select set of nine QE announcements, outlined 
in Table 2 . Moreover, accompanying declines in Eurodollar futures-implied interest rates also took place around these QE 
announcements, consistent with prior evidence of signaling effects. 
Conversely, dynamics surrounding the QT period stand in stark contrast. We select a set of 11 QT announcements in 
which the Federal Reserve publicized plans and timelines for slowing and ultimately unwinding asset purchases. No signiﬁ- 
cant cumulative increases—in  longer-term Treasury yields, MBS rates or Eurodollar futures rates—are  observed across these 
QT dates. This prima-facie evidence of asymmetric effects is striking as it suggests that announcement effects differed mean- 
ingfully across QE and QT episodes. This is supportive of the notion that QT transmits differently to ﬁnancial markets than 
merely QE in reverse. 
While this analysis does not constitute incontrovertible proof, it does provide a strong indication of asymmetry—in  both 
liquidity and announcement effects—across  expansions and unwind episodes. This observation motivates the rest of our pa- 
per. We aim to complement the large literature on the effects of central bank asset purchases with an empirical examination 
of the ﬁnancial market effects of unwinding the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet. 
3. Were there announcement effects during the balance sheet unwind? 
We begin our analysis with an event study to detect announcement effects stemming from balance sheet normalization. 
While the results in Table 1 suggest that announcement effects were absent from the QT episode, our focus on the cumula- 
tive decline across all QT events could mask some degree of heterogeneity across announcement effects. Therefore, we now 
proceed with a more detailed analysis of individual QT announcements. We scrutinize possible differences in announcements 
regarding tapering or slowing purchases as distinct from unwinding past purchases, and provide some narrative interpreta- 
tion for our ﬁndings. 
Our event study follows a large literature that isolates the ﬁnancial market effects of the Federal Reserve’s QE programs 
by studying the responses of asset prices in small windows around Federal Reserve announcements (including Gagnon et al., 
6 
===== PAGE 7 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Table 3 
Quantitative Tightening Announcements. 
Date Announcement Description 
May 22, 2013 [ a ] Taper Bernanke says tapering could begin “in the next few meetings”
Jun 19, 2013 [ b] Taper Bernanke states that tapering could be appropriate “later this year”
May 21, 2014 [ c] Unwind Minutes signal beginning of balance sheet normalization planning 
Jul 9, 2014 [ c] Unwind Minutes discuss gradual approach to ceasing asset reinvestments 
Aug 20, 2014 [ c] Unwind Minutes offer details on balance sheet normalization planning 
Sep 17, 2014 [ c] Unwind FOMC releases Policy Normalization Principles and Plan 
Jan 12, 2017 [ d] Unwind Three Fed speeches discuss normalizing the balance sheet 
Apr 5, 2017 [ c] Unwind Minutes signal phasing out reinvestments “later this year”
May 24, 2017 [ c] Unwind Minutes detail plan for phasing out reinvestment 
Jun 14, 2017 [ b] Unwind FOMC releases asset runoff plan, announces that runoff will 
begin “this year”
Sep. 20, 2017 [ b] Unwind FOMC announces that asset runoff will begin next month 
[a] Source: The Economic Outlook Congressional Hearings, 113th Congress, Joint Economic Committee . [b] 
Source: FOMC Meeting Meeting calendars, statements, and minutes (2016-2021) . [c] Source: Federal Reserve 
History of the FOMC ’ s Policy Normalization Discussions and Communications . [d] Source: Ben Bernanke’s Brookings Blog 
Shrinking the Fed ’ s balance sheet . 
2011; Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen, 2011; 2013; Swanson, 2020 , among others). Identiﬁcation of such announce- 
ment effects on ﬁnancial markets is premised on the assumption that markets are eﬃcient and forward looking and, thus, 
expectations of policy are reﬂected in asset prices before policymakers make any announcement. Under this assumption, the 
change in asset prices following the announcement predominantly reﬂects the revision of policy expectations by investors 
and, consequently, the change in asset prices around the announcement embodies the surprise component of monetary 
policy. We speciﬁcally study the announcement effects on Treasury yields, MBS and corporate bond yields, as well as the 
foreign exchange value of the dollar, the S&P 500 index, and Eurodollar futures-implied interest rates. 
We follow Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2011) and study the change in bond yields and other asset prices in a 
two-day window around Federal Reserve announcements and extend the analysis to communication related to both taper- 
ing and unwinding asset purchases. The two-day window allows for late-in-the-day announcement effects to fully reﬂect 
through to asset prices the following trading day. As Hanson and Stein (2015) argue, empirical evidence suggests that it 
especially takes time for longer-term yields to fully react to FOMC announcements. The set of events we focus on is largely 
outlined by the Federal Reserve Board’s chronology of Federal Reserve communication related to balance sheet normal- 
ization. 3 We augment this timeline of events with two key announcements related to the tapering or slowing of asset 
purchases. Strictly speaking, these two announcements were not necessarily focused on shrinking the balance sheet per 
se. Nevertheless, they may have shaped expectations about the ultimate normalization effort. Table 3 outlines the 11 dates 
that constitute our QT event study set. The ﬁrst two events of May 22, 2013 and June 19, 2013 correspond to tapering an- 
nouncements when the Committee revealed intentions to slow the pace of its asset purchases. The remaining nine events 
encompass the release of FOMC meeting minutes, FOMC statements, and speeches that publicized the Committee’s discus- 
sions and plans speciﬁcally related to reducing the balance sheet. 
In parallel to the results we show in Table 1 , we generally ﬁnd a limited response of Treasury yields to Federal Reserve 
announcements related to QT. Table 4 shows the two-day change in Treasury yields over the 11 QT event days across the 1-, 
3-, 5-, 10-, and 30-year sections of the yield curve with the bottom rows registering the cumulative response across different 
types of events. The cumulative change across all events elicited no signiﬁcant response outside of the 5-year Treasury note. 
However, the tepid cumulative effect across all events masks considerable heterogeneity across announcement types. The 
ﬁrst two announcements, which were focused on the tapering of asset purchases, showed much larger responses than did 
any of the announcements related to normalizing the balance sheet. For some benchmark, over the January 2008 through 
December 2018 sample, the standard deviation of the two-day change in the 10-year Treasury yield is 0.07 percentage 
points. This represents a threshold that none of the nine balance sheet unwind dates reach and only the two tapering 
announcements exceed. The cumulative differences between taper and unwind announcements are clear in the last two 
rows, which show that taper announcements led to meaningful upward revisions across much of the yield curve. However, 
the overall effect of unwind announcements is quantitatively small and qualitatively ambiguous across the 1-, 3-, 5-, 10-, 
and 30-year sections of the yield curve. 
Additionally, we ﬁnd no signiﬁcant announcement effects of quantitative tightening on broader ﬁnancial markets. Table 5 
duplicates the analysis of Table 4 , extending it to the two-day change in MBS and corporate bond yields, as well as the 
foreign exchange value of the dollar, S&P 500 index, and Eurodollar futures-implied interest rates. The cumulative change in 
all of these yields and asset prices is statistically insigniﬁcant across all 11 events. Notably, just as we saw for the Treasury 
market, there is considerable heterogeneity in the response across announcement types. The tapering announcements ex- 
acted higher mortgage and corporate borrowing rates, a stronger dollar, and lower equity prices. These movements were all 
3 This chronology is available at: https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/policy- normalization- discussions- communications- history.htm . 
7 
===== PAGE 8 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Table 4 
Quantitative Tightening Announcement Effects on Treasury Yields. 
Two-Day Change in Yields (pp) 
Date Announcement 1-yr. 3-yr. 5-yr. 10-yr. 30-yr. 
May 22, 2013 Taper 0.00 0.03 0.07 0.08 0.06 
Jun 19, 2013 Taper 0.01 0.14 0.24 0.21 0.15 
May 21, 2014 Unwind 0.00 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.05 
Jul 9, 2014 Unwind -0.01 -0.06 -0.04 -0.03 0.00 
Aug 20, 2014 Unwind -0.01 0.05 0.05 0.01 -0.02 
Sep 17, 2014 Unwind -0.01 0.06 0.07 0.03 0.00 
Jan 12, 2017 Unwind 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.03 
Apr 5, 2017 Unwind 0.02 -0.02 -0.01 -0.02 0.00 
May 24, 2017 Unwind 0.02 -0.03 -0.06 -0.04 -0.03 
Jun 14, 2017 Unwind -0.01 -0.02 -0.03 -0.05 -0.09 
Sep 20, 2017 Unwind 0.00 0.04 0.05 0.03 -0.01 
Cumulative Response (pp) 
Event Study Regressions 1-yr. 3-yr. 5-yr. 10-yr. 30-yr. 
All Events [ a ] 0.01 0.23 0.39 ∗ 0.28 0.14 
(0.12) (0.19) (0.22) (0.22) (0.21) 
Only Taper Events [ b] 0.01 0.17 ∗∗ 0.31 ∗∗∗ 0.29 ∗∗∗ 0.21 ∗∗
(0.05) (0.08) (0.09) (0.10) (0.09) 
Only Unwind Events [ c] 0.00 0.06 0.08 -0.01 -0.07 
(0.11) (0.17) (0.20) (0.20) (0.19) 
[a] Coeﬃcients βQT from the regression: /Delta1y n 
t = βQT QT t + ε t , where /Delta1y n 
t is the two-day change in the n-year constant maturity 
Treasury yield and QT t is a dummy variable, which takes a value of 1/11 on the dates listed above. [b] Coeﬃcients βQT from 
the regression: /Delta1y n 
t = βQT QT t + ε t , where /Delta1y n 
t is the two-day change in the n-year constant maturity Treasury yield and QT t 
is a dummy variable, which takes a value of 1/2 on the ﬁrst two dates above that were related to tapering. [c] Coeﬃcients βQT 
from the regression: /Delta1y n 
t = βQT QT t + ε t , where /Delta1y n 
t is the two-day change in the n-year constant maturity Treasury yield and 
QT t is a dummy variable, which takes a value of 1/9 on the last nine dates above that were related to unwinding past asset 
purchases. Notes: OLS standard errors are reported in parenthesis. Sample Period: January 2008 – December 2018. Observations: 
4016. ∗∗∗p < 0 . 01 , ∗∗p < 0 . 05 , ∗p < 0 . 10 . 
Table 5 
Quantitative Tightening Announcement Effects on Other Assets. 
Two-Day Change in Yields (pp) and Asset Prices (%) 
Date Announcement MBS BBB Dollar Index S&P 500 8-Qtr Eurodollar 
May 22, 2013 Taper 0.19 0.04 0.05 -1.12 0.05 
Jun 19, 2013 Taper 0.29 0.20 1.71 -3.85 0.27 
May 21, 2014 Unwind 0.02 0.05 0.03 1.05 0.03 
Jul 9, 2014 Unwind -0.05 -0.01 -0.01 0.05 -0.07 
Aug 20, 2014 Unwind -0.01 -0.03 0.25 0.54 0.05 
Sep 17, 2014 Unwind 0.02 0.01 0.29 0.62 0.09 
Jan 12, 2017 Unwind 0.03 0.01 -0.86 -0.03 0.02 
Apr 5, 2017 Unwind -0.02 -0.01 0.01 -0.11 -0.04 
May 24, 2017 Unwind -0.04 -0.02 -0.28 0.69 -0.03 
Jun 14, 2017 Unwind -0.03 -0.08 0.22 -0.32 -0.04 
Sep 20, 2017 Unwind 0.03 -0.01 0.29 -0.24 0.07 
Cumulative Response (pp or %) 
Event Study Regressions MBS BBB Dollar Index S&P 500 8-Qtr Eurodollar 
All Events [ a ] 0.46 0.21 1.91 -2.72 0.41 
(0.38) (0.21) (1.46) (4.67) (0.28) 
Only Taper Events [ b] 0.48 ∗∗∗ 0.30 ∗∗∗ 1.97 ∗∗∗ -4.97 ∗∗ 0.32 ∗∗∗
(0.16) (0.09) (0.62) (1.99) (0.12) 
Only Unwind Events [ c] -0.02 -0.09 -0.07 2.25 0.09 
(0.35) (0.19) (1.32) (4.22) (0.25) 
[a] Coeﬃcients βQT from the regression: /Delta1y t = βQT QT t + ε t , where /Delta1y t is the two-day change in the yield or percent change 
in asset price and QT t is a dummy variable, which takes a value of 1/11 on the dates listed above. [b] Coeﬃcients βQT from 
the regression: /Delta1y t = βQT QT t + ε t , where /Delta1y t is the two-day change in the yield or percent change in asset price and QT t is a 
dummy variable, which takes a value of 1/2 on the ﬁrst two dates above that were related to tapering. [c] Coeﬃcients βQT from 
the regression: /Delta1y t = βQT QT t + ε t , where /Delta1y t is the two-day change in the yield or percent change in asset price and QT t is a 
dummy variable, which takes a value of 1/9 on the last nine dates above that were related to unwinding past asset purchases. 
Notes: OLS standard errors are reported in parenthesis. Sample Period: January 2008 – December 2018. Observations: 4016. 
∗∗∗p < 0 . 01 , ∗∗p < 0 . 05 , ∗p < 0 . 10 . 
8 
===== PAGE 9 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
statistically signiﬁcant. In contrast, announcements related speciﬁcally to unwinding past asset purchases caused no similar 
tightening. Changes in mortgage and BBB corporate bond rates were unremarkable around the nine unwind announcements. 
Turning to MBSs, a market which had the potential to be directly impacted by partially unwinding the Federal Reserve’s MBS 
holdings, the two-day change in MBS rates around any of the nine unwind events fails to exceed the sample standard de- 
viation of the two-day change in MBS yields of 0.12 percentage points. More broadly, foreign exchange and equity markets 
also appeared to be unfazed by the Federal Reserve’s communication around unwinding its balance sheet. 
This event study reveals that—while  announcements related to tapering asset purchases led to a tightening in ﬁnancial 
conditions—announcements  related to shrinking the balance sheet and unwinding past purchases had no observable impact 
on ﬁnancial markets. This disparity appears to be explained, at least in part, by differences in signaling effects. The last 
column of Table 5 shows the response of expectations for future short-term interest rates, as implied by the 8-Qtr ahead 
Eurodollar futures contract, to each announcement in our event set. We ﬁnd the taper announcements incited large revisions 
to the expected path of future policy rates. In fact, the 0.32 percentage point movement in interest-rate futures is similar in 
magnitude to the 0.29 percentage point movement in 10-year Treasury yields. Therefore, the taper announcements appear 
to have had large ﬁnancial market effects, in part, because they led to an upward revision to expectations about future 
policy rates, consistent with the discussion in Bernanke (2017) . In contrast, the unwind announcements had no statistically 
signiﬁcant effect on interest rate expectations, as evident from the last row of Table 5 . 
The lack of signaling effects, and more general announcement effects, from communication regarding unwinding the 
balance sheet appears to have been by design and was largely an objective of Federal Reserve oﬃcials. On June 14, 2017, 
one of the nine balance sheet unwind event dates we inspect, the Federal Reserve unveiled its plan for shrinking its balance 
sheet and announced intentions to implement the plan, “this year.” However, in a concerted effort to mitigate any market 
reaction to this announcement, Federal Reserve Chair Yellen described the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet normalization 
plan in the post-FOMC meeting press conference as follows (our own emphasis added): 
[... ] — the plan is one that is consciously intended to avoid creating market strains and to allow the market to 
adjust to a very gradual and predictable plan. My hope and expectation is that when we decide to go forward with 
this plan, that there will be very little reaction to it , that it’s clear how we intend to proceed, and that this is something 
that will just run quietly in the background over a number of years , leading to a reduction in the size of our balance 
sheet and in the outstanding stock of reserves, and that it’s something that the Committee will not be reconsidering from 
time to time. We think this is a workable plan, and as one of my colleagues, President Harker, described it, it will be like 
watching paint dry , that this will just be something that runs quietly in the background. 
– Yellen (2017) 
As this quote suggests, and unlike when the Federal Reserve announced plans to expand its balance sheet, communi- 
cation around unwinding past asset purchases was largely framed as an independent aspect of the policy stance. It was 
not intended to signal a broader shift in the path of monetary policy. For instance, in September 2017 when the Federal 
Reserve announced that it would begin reducing its balance sheet in October, Federal Reserve Chair Yellen took great care 
to outline that, “[... ] changing the target range for the federal funds rate is our primary means of adjusting the stance of 
monetary policy. Our balance sheet is not intended to be an active tool for monetary policy in normal times.” The dichotomy 
the Federal Reserve created between shrinking its balance sheet and adjusting the path of the federal funds rate may play 
an important role in accounting for the discrepancy in announcement effects across expanding and shrinking the Federal 
Reserve’s balance sheet. 
Signaling effects aside, other differences in communication provide added context in explaining the diverging effects of 
announcements across both regimes. Asset purchase programs were typically introduced with explicit disclosures of a pre- 
cise amount of assets the Federal Reserve intended to purchase over a given period. Conversely, communication around 
balance sheet reductions were far less concrete. For instance, the June 14, 2017 Policy Normalization Principles and Plans 
vaguely stated that, “the Federal Reserve’s securities holdings will continue to decline in a gradual and predictable manner 
until the Committee judges that the Federal Reserve is holding no more securities than necessary to implement monetary 
policy eﬃciently and effectively.” Therefore, unlike announcements that accompanied balance sheet expansions, communi- 
cation surrounding balance sheet reductions may have been too nebulous to meaningfully shape expectations regarding the 
evolution of the balance sheet. 
The importance of unwind announcements might have further been hampered by the foregone conclusion that unwind- 
ing past asset purchases was always anticipated to take place. As early as 2008, then Chair Bernanke clearly signaled that 
asset purchases would be unwound in the future ( Bernanke, 2008 ). Conversely, QE announcements —particularly  those re- 
lated to QE 1 for which the event study literature has found the largest ﬁnancial market effects —were  largely unexpected. 
Consequently, a common challenge to event studies could be biasing our estimates since QT was not an entirely unexpected 
proposition. 4 
4 Greenlaw et al. (2018) instead argue that the absence of any meaningful market reaction to quantitative tightening announcements suggests that 
changes in expectations over the size of the balance sheet have little effect on ﬁnancial markets. This seems consistent with our ﬁndings if one attributes 
the differences across QE, taper, and unwind announcement effects to differences in rate signaling. 
9 
===== PAGE 10 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Given the dearth of signaling, the lack of speciﬁcity accompanying unwind announcements, and the anticipated nature 
of unwinding the balance sheet, any effects from unwinding past asset purchases may not have manifested themselves upon 
announcement. Instead, these effects more likely materialized upon implementation, an issue we turn to next. 
4. Implementation effects surrounding balance sheet unwind 
We pursue a ﬂexible time-series approach to quantify ﬁnancial market effects upon the implementation of balance sheet 
normalization. Unlike announcement effects, im plementation effects can diffuse gradually over time. Event studies may be 
less well-suited to measure slow propagating effects. Accordingly, we employ both time-varying and constant-parameter 
structural VAR models. While identiﬁcation is more challenging in this setting, compared with an event-study scheme, a 
strength of our framework is that it allows for both immediate and delayed effects from balance sheet adjustments. This is 
likely necessary in order to accommodate the Federal Reserve’s deliberate strategy for a gradual normalization of its balance 
sheet in this period. Another advantage of the approach includes its ability to inform how persistent any ﬁnancial market 
effects from unwinding asset holdings may have been. The persistence of the effects of the Federal Reserve’s asset purchases 
has been an area of focus of several studies, with no clear consensus emerging ( D’Amico and King, 2013; Swanson, 2020; 
Wright, 2012 ). 
Implementation effects from reducing the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet may emanate from reductions in reserve bal- 
ances, through liquidity effects for instance. They may also ensue from reductions in asset holdings, such as those identiﬁed 
in Kandrac and Schlusche (2013) , D’Amico and King (2013) , and Christensen and Gillan (2022) upon the implementation 
of asset purchases. We incorporate both Federal Reserve liabilities and asset holdings into our structural VAR model to en- 
compass the numerous possible aspects through which the implementation of balance sheet reduction may impact ﬁnancial 
markets. 
We, however, orient our structural identiﬁcation around the dynamics of reserve balances, a Federal Reserve liability. This 
decision primarily reﬂects the FOMC’s own approach to balance sheet normalization. The June 14, 2017 Policy Normalization 
Principles and Plans noted that: “The Committee expects to learn more about the underlying demand for reserves during 
the process of balance sheet normalization.” Therefore, balance sheet normalization was guided by how the relationship 
between reserve balances and short-term money market rates would evolve. Reinforcing this point, the end of the balance 
sheet unwind process culminated on a material increase in money-market rates amid sharp reductions in reserve balances in 
September 2019. In response to this tightening in money markets, the Federal Reserve initiated repo operations and outright 
purchases of Treasuries to once again begin increasing the supply of reserves. This marked the end of the balance sheet 
reduction process we study. To capture these apparent linkages between reserves and short-term interest rates, we include 
in our structural VAR model measures of short-term secured (repo) and unsecured interest rates: the secured overnight 
ﬁnancing rate (SOFR) and the federal funds rate. 
Our consideration of these rates serves a dual purpose. First, they should help capture any liquidity effects upon nor- 
malization. Second, they provide a safeguard against the possibility that the dynamics we seek to study are contaminated 
by other developments shaping the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet and ﬁnancial markets. In addition to the approximately 
$700 billion decrease in reserve balances during the Asset Runoff period, other forces—namely  the increase in Treasury bill 
supply—are  also thought to have played a role in applying steady upward pressure to money-market rates leading up to 
September 2019 ( Copeland et al., 2021 ). For instance, in a June 2018 press conference, Federal Reserve Chair Powell at- 
tributed the upward rate pressure not to declining reserve balances but instead noted: 
I think there’s a lot of probability on the idea of just high [Treasury] bill supply leads to higher repo costs, higher money 
market rates, and the arbitrage pulls up the federal funds rate toward IOER. –(  Powell, 2018 ) 
Figure 4 shows that during the 2017–2019 Asset Runoff period, Treasury bills outstanding increased by nearly 30%. As 
Treasury supply increased, Treasury’s general account (TGA) balance with the Federal Reserve also increased, which would 
result in reserve reductions that mimic, yet are distinct from, balance sheet reduction dynamics. Namely, increases in bill 
supply could increase money market rates and increase TGA balances while reducing reserve balances. 5 
We next turn to our strategy for identifying reserve supply shocks and a discussion as to why we associate reductions in 
reserve supply with the unwinding of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet. 
4.1. Structural VAR identifying restrictions 
There have been many investigations of the effects of changes in central bank reserves on interest rates, ﬁnancial markets, 
and the broader economy (see Christiano et al., 1996; Curdia and Woodford, 2016; Demiralp et al., 2019; Iwata and Wu, 
2006; Strongin, 1995 , among many others). While many approaches, particularly those employing structural VAR models, 
have typically used monthly or quarterly data, Bernanke and Mihov (1998) consider biweekly data informed by operational 
concepts on the implementation of monetary policy. 
5 The settlement of Treasuries purchases ultimately involves debiting a reserve account and crediting the TGA account. Indeed, TGA ﬂuctuations have 
been used as an instrument for exogenous changes in the supply of reserve balances to isolate liquidity effects in the Federal Reserve’s pre-crisis regime 
for implementing monetary policy ( Hamilton, 1997 ). 
10 
===== PAGE 11 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Fig. 4. Marketable Treasury Bills Outstanding: 2007–2019 . Source: U.S. Treasury. 
We pursue a similar approach by combining the Federal Reserve’s approach to reserves management during balance 
sheet normalization with the Federal Reserve Board’s week-ending-Wednesday balance sheet data. Our strategy in particular 
aims to isolate effects of reserve supply shocks, which are inextricably linked to the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet unwind, 
from other forces, including ﬂuctuations in Treasury bill supply. We achieve this distinction by assuming a block-triangular 
structure for the impact matrix that maps the vector of residuals to that of the identiﬁed structural shocks. This requires 
attention to the order in which the variables enter the system. We impose a formulation whereby our focus of attention—
an exogenous shock in the supply of reserves—is  placed ﬁrst in our VAR ordering. An assumption we now defend on the 
basis of both the Federal Reserve’s approach to implementing monetary policy as well as institutional aspects regarding the 
timing of Treasury auctions. 
Speciﬁcally, we order reserves ahead of: the secured overnight ﬁnancing rate net of the interest on reserves; the spread 
between the effective federal funds rate and IOR; either an index of ﬁnancial conditions or the price/yield of a particular 
asset, denoted by Z t ; and the Federal Reserve System Open Market Account (SOMA) holdings. We denote the VAR vari- 
ables by x t = [(100 ∗lo g(RES t ) ; (SOF R t − IOR t ) ; (F F t − IOR t ) ; Z t ; (100 ∗lo g(SOMA t )] ′ where t is the value of each variable as 
of Wednesday each week. We model these variables as a time-varying parameter VAR(p): 
θt (L ) x t = e t (2) 
where θt (L ) = I 5 − θt, 1 L −···− θt,p L p is a pth order lag polynomial and e t is a mean zero vector of reduced-form VAR resid- 
uals with time-varying covariance matrix R t . 6 We recover the underlying structural VAR by specifying the linear mapping, 
e t = P t ϵt , between e t , the reduced-form VAR residuals, and ϵt , the structural shocks of interest, where P t is block lower- 
triangular. We provide further details of our implementation of the the time-varying parameter VAR model in the next 
section and we now turn to our restriction scheme. 
We motivate our identifying assumptions based on two factors: (i) the Federal Reserve’s approach for implementing 
monetary policy and managing reserves during balance sheet normalization as well as (ii) the structure of Treasury auc- 
tions. Regarding the ﬁrst factor, until September 2019, when the FOMC ended its balance sheet normalization program, the 
Federal Reserve did not adjust reserve balances week-to-week in response to developments in money markets or broader ﬁ- 
nancial conditions. This assumption is consistent with the description in Yellen (2017) of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet 
normalization strategy. This allows us to treat the supply curve for reserves as perfectly inelastic (vertical) within the week. 
However, shifts in this supply curve week-to-week could stem not only from balance sheet runoff but also from changes in 
Treasury bill supply which, through changes in the TGA, can feed through to reserve balances. This could ultimately affect 
repo markets as well as broader ﬁnancial conditions. 
In principle, changes in Treasury bill supply could introduce a confounding factor in our restriction scheme. However, 
institutional aspects of the management of Treasury auctions severely limits the ability for the Treasury bill supply to con- 
6 We also include a constant and we use the AIC to select four lags. 
11 
===== PAGE 12 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
taminate our identiﬁcation strategy. Speciﬁcally, aside from cash management auctions, Treasury bill auctions have histor- 
ically followed a regular schedule where the auction is announced on Tuesday and settled on Thursday. Treasury auction 
announcements provide details about what is on offer, including the maturity, amount, and even the Committee on Uniform 
Security Identiﬁcation Procedures (CUSIP) number. This enables immediate trading and pricing of the new securities on a 
“when-issued” basis ( Garbade and Ingber, 2005 ). However, winning bidders from Treasury bill auctions settle with Treasury 
up to one week after the announcement. For example, if the winning bidder is a depository institution, the Federal Reserve—
in its role as the ﬁscal agent for the U.S. Treasury—settles  the auction by debiting the depository institution’s reserve account 
and crediting TGA. An increase in the repo rate due to an announced increase in Treasury bill supply should have no effect 
on end-of-day Wednesday reserve balances within the current week. Instead, any reduction in reserve balances associated 
with an increase in Treasury bill supply should occur the following week (at the earliest). 7 
Based on these two factors, we interpret innovations to reserves in our speciﬁcation as “reserve supply shocks” stemming 
from the unwinding of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet. Our sample encompasses two phases in the policy normalization 
effort s of the Federal Reserve. During the ﬁrst phase, between September 2014 and September 2017, the Federal Reserve 
ceased net asset purchases and instead bought just enough securities to replace those that matured each month. The result 
of this Full Reinvestment phase was a steady decline in reserve balances without an associated decline in asset holdings. 
Thus, in this early sample, a negative reserve supply shock could arise from tax payments, an increase in outstanding reverse 
repos, or unexpected asset redemptions, such as more mortgage pre-payments, relative to what the trading desk at the New 
York Fed anticipated. In any event, the result is the same: a decline in the supply of reserves available to banks. This allows 
us to infer the response of interest rates and other asset prices to reductions in reserve balances since, unlike in previous 
operating regimes, the Federal Reserve was not attempting to counteract these reserve ﬂuctuations ( Ihrig et al., 2020 ). By 
not offsetting reserve declines, the Federal Reserve was effectively unwinding the large reserve balances accumulated from 
past asset purchases. 
Beginning in October 2017, the Federal Reserve conducted a structured Asset Runoff using a pre-speciﬁed cap on the 
amount of securities that could be redeemed without replacement, with the cap rising gradually over time. Therefore, in 
this later sample, what we identify as a negative reserve supply shock may arise from the aforementioned sources but 
should predominantly reﬂect asset redemptions related to the unwinding of the federal reserve’s SOMA portfolio. To this 
point, SOMA holdings and reserve balances both declined by about $700 billion dollars. 8 It is in this later sample that one 
can glean the ﬁnancial market effects of joint declines in the supply of reserves available to banks and reductions in the 
Federal Reserve’s asset holdings. 
4.2. The time-varying dynamics of balance sheet unwind 
In light of the aforementioned changes in reinvestment policy, we allow—but  do not impose—that  changes in the na- 
ture of reserve reductions had a ﬁrst-order effect on the transmission of balance sheet normalization to broad ﬁnancial 
conditions. We begin our structural VAR analysis by studying the effects of negative reserve supply shocks on our core VAR 
variables discussed in previous sections along with a broad index of ﬁnancial conditions to measure the net effect on overall 
ﬁnancing conditions. While many such indexes are available, the Goldman Sachs Financial Conditions Index (GS-FCI) is one 
of the few available at a daily frequency. Figure 5 shows the time series of the weekly end-of-period (Wednesday) value 
of the index. The GS-FCI is a transparent weighted sum of the federal funds rate, the 10-year Treasury yield, the BBB bond 
spread, the trade-weighted foreign-exchange value of the dollar, and the S&P 500. The weights are determined by the ef- 
fect each component has on GDP according to a stylized macroeconomic model ( Hatzius and Stehn, 2018 ). After studying 
the responses of this broad GS-FCI, we then undertake a more granular analysis of the cross-asset price movements that 
materialize when unwinding the balance sheet. 
While there was a discreet change in the Federal Reserve’s reinvestment policy in October 2017, there were also gradual 
changes in the evolution of reserves and SOMA holdings before and after October 2017. For instance, to the extent that 
liquidity dynamics evolve with the level of reserve balances, we might expect a more continuous evolution of liquidity 
effects as reserve balances gradually declined from their 2014 peak. Moreover, while asset runoffs began in October 2017, the 
pace varied considerably as the Federal Reserve’s caps on the amount of securities that were allowed to roll off the balance 
7 To use a recent Treasury auction as an example, consider the 4-Week Bill auction announced on Thursday, Oct. 4, 2018. The Oct. 4 press release details 
that $40 billion of these bills were auctioned on Tuesday, Oct. 9, and then issued on Thursday, Oct. 11, which is when the winning bidders transferred 
payment to Treasury. Importantly, this implies that any ﬂuctuations in reserves between Wednesday, Oct. 3, and Wednesday, Oct. 10, are not directly 
related to this Treasury issuance. Instead, any direct effect this issuance has on week-ending-Wednesday reserve balances due to the auction settlement 
would ﬁrst appear in the Wednesday, Oct. 17 H.4.1 release. Importantly, our identiﬁcation does not rule out a repo rate effect at the time of Treasury 
settlement, as the response of repo rates and reserves are left unconstrained in subsequent weeks. 
8 While we argue that declines in reserve balances were driven by reductions in SOMA holdings over this sample, we acquiesce to the possibility 
that a high degree of endogeneity may arise between reserves balances and currency in the longer run. However, we contend it is highly unlikely our 
reserve supply shocks, identiﬁed at a weekly frequency, could be confounded with currency demand shocks during the QT period. First, while the ratio 
of reserves-to-total-checkable-deposits (R/TCD) exhibits wide ﬂuctuations around a sustained decline during the balance sheet unwind period (an almost 
65% reduction between 2014 and 2019), the currency/TCD ratio remains essentially ﬂat (less than 0.7% decrease) over the same period. Moreover, even 
bi-weekly movements in currency are practically dwarfed by high-frequency ﬂuctuations in reserves, where the latter’s standard deviation is 14 times 
larger than the former in our sample. Consequently, high-frequency currency movements would seem largely uninformative for any discernible dynamics 
in reserves between 2014 and 2019. 
12 
===== PAGE 13 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Fig. 5. Financial Conditions Before/During/After Quantitative Tightening Period . Note: Higher values of the GS-FCI correspond to a tightening in ﬁnancial 
conditions. Conversely, low values indicate a loosening. 
sheet gradually increased over time. Therefore, we allow the ﬂexibility of the time-varying-parameter VAR to inform our 
views on how gradual were the effects from unwinding the balance sheet. We opt for this time-varying approach because it 
does not preclude the possibility that the change in these dynamics may not occur suddenly. 9 Consider the following VAR 
process: 
θt ( L ) x t = e t , (3) 
where x t is an n -vector of endogenous time t variables; θt = I n − θ1 t L − ... − θpt L p is a pth order lag polynomial in which each 
θis a time-varying matrix of autoregressive coeﬃcients and e t is an n -vector of mean-zero VAR innovations. We allow for 
time variation in the variances of the shocks in the VAR model, all of which are summarized in the time-varying covariance 
matrix R t . Let /Theta1t represent the stacked vector of all coeﬃcients in θt ( L ) , and assume it evolves according to: 
/Theta1t = /Theta1t−1 + u t , (4) 
where u t is a Gaussian white noise process with zero mean and constant covariance Q, independent of e t at all leads and 
lags. A seminal application of modern time-varying structural VARs by Cogley and Sargent (2005) and a comprehensive 
treatment by Primiceri (2005) rely on the Bayesian single-move technique of Jacquier et al. (2002) to estimate stochastic 
volatilities. We follow a variant of the multi-move stochastic volatility construct of Kim et al. (1998) to allow for time 
variation in the underlying VAR model. 10 
We decompose the covariance matrix of system (3) as follows. Let E(e t e ′ 
t ) ≡ F t H t F ′ 
t , where F t and H t are given by: 
F t = 
⎡ 
⎢ 
⎢ 
⎢ 
⎣ 
1 0 . . . 0 
f 2 t 1 . . . 
. . . 
. . . 
. . . 
. . . 0 
f nt . . . f nnt−1 1 
⎤ 
⎥ 
⎥ 
⎥ 
⎦ 
9 Nonlinear dynamics in the transmission of reserve management and ﬁnancial conditions could be modeled in a number of ways. Event studies, such as 
those we employ in our analysis in previous sections, are a popular technique to elucidate potential discontinuities. Other approaches for regime change, 
such as Markov Switch, GARCH or sub-samples estimated across structural break tests at unknown dates, could prove useful as well. However, we opt for 
a time-varying VAR approach because it allows for the possibility that these transmissions in question may have proceeded gradually. 
10 Del Negro and Primiceri (2015) argue for an alternative algorithm that allows for a more eﬃcient implementation of Kim et al. (1998) over 
Jacquier et al. (2002) . It involves a reorganization of the steps in the Gibbs sampler where the history of the volatilities is sampled after—rather  than 
ahead of—the  mixing indicators for each parameter for every period t. 
13 
===== PAGE 14 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
and 
H t = 
⎡ 
⎢ 
⎢ 
⎢ 
⎣ 
h 1 t 0 . . . 0 
0 h 2 t . . . 
. . . 
. . . 
. . . 
. . . 0 
0 . . . 0 h nt 
⎤ 
⎥ 
⎥ 
⎥ 
⎦ 
, 
respectively. The diagonal elements of H t are independent univariate stochastic processes that evolve according to: 
ln (h jt ) = ln (h jt−1 ) + ξt ∀ j = 1 , 2 , . . . , n (5) 
Stacking all the off-diagonal elements of F −1 
t into a vector γt , we further assume that this vector evolves according to the 
following drift-less geometric random walk: 
γt = γt−1 + ζt (6) 
where ξt ∼ iid(0 , /Xi1) and ζt ∼ iid(0 , /Psi1) . We assume u t ⊥ ξt ⊥ ζt with a block-diagonal covariance matrix /Psi1to prevent 
non-zero covariance of the coeﬃcients among different equations. 
We assume the underlying structural shocks ( ϵt ) are a time-varying transformation of the reduced-form innovations ( e t ) 
as follows: 
e t = P t ϵt ∀ t, (7) 
where P t is a non-singular matrix that satisﬁes P t P ′ 
t = R t . Given this mapping, changes in the contributions of different 
structural shocks to the volatility in innovations in the underlying variables of interest are captured by changes in P t . 
Let the companion form of (3) be given by: 
X t = /Pi1t X t−1 + De t , (8) 
where X t = (x ′ 
t , x ′ 
t−1 , . . . , x ′ 
t− p+1 ) ′ , D = (I, 0 , . . . , 0) ′ , and /Pi1t is the companion matrix containing the time-varying autoregres- 
sive coeﬃcients in (3) . With these elements in hand, a standard local projection of (8) can be deﬁned by: 
∂x t+ h 
∂e t 
= s n,n 
(/Pi1h 
t 
) ∀ t, h = 1 (9) 
where s n,n = D ′ /Pi1h 
t D selects the upper left n-by-n sub-matrix from the larger matrix. A simple application of the chain rule 
obtains impulse responses at an arbitrary h th horizon: 
∂x t+ h 
∂ϵt 
= 
∂x t+ h 
∂e t 
∂e t 
∂ϵt 
= s n,n 
(/Pi1h 
t 
)
P t ∀ t, h = 1 . (10) 
In our speciﬁcation with n = 5 variables, the second-to-last variable in the order is an index of ﬁnancial conditions where t
is the value of each variable as of Wednesday each week. And the last variable is the week-ending-Wednesday (log trans- 
formed) SOMA balances. However, what is practically important for our block-triangular structure is that reserve balances 
are ordered ﬁrst. 
4.3. Discussion of results from the time-varying approach 
We estimate a TVP-VAR with the GS-FCI placed fourth in our ordering. We employ a training sample of 65 weeks for 
estimation of a standard VAR whose reduced-form parameters are used to initialize the Gibbs sampler algorithm. Thus, our 
estimates range from October 2015 to October 2019. We obtain impulse response function-point estimates for each week 
within our sample (200 periods across the t-dimension) and for every week following the speciﬁed shock (20 horizons 
across the h -dimension.) 
In the interest of clarity in our presentation of results, we report responses to negative reserve supply shocks for every 
period t while averaging the responses across horizons. Figures 6–8 show the last week of the month-responses for every 
week between October 2015 and October 2019 with error bands produced within the 16–84% credible set. The top panels 
of these ﬁgures report the ﬁrst-month responses to a negative shock in reserves (the ﬁrst variable in our ordering). We 
collate these responses by averaging the ﬁrst through the fourth week responses post shock. The middle panels show the 
second-month responses (averages for horizons ﬁve through eight). The bottom panels display the third-month responses 
(averaging week nine through week 12 responses post shock). Finally, we append a vertical line, labeled September 2017, 
to each of these charts, which constitutes a line of demarcation between the two phases of the balance sheet unwind: Full 
Reinvestment and Asset Runoff. 
Figure 6 shows the time-varying response of the GS-FCI to a negative shock in the supply of reserves. A negative reserve 
supply shock generates no signiﬁcant response of ﬁnancial conditions prior to September 2017. Thereafter, during the second 
phase of balance sheet normalization—when  asset runoff was the primary driver of reductions in the balance sheet of the 
Federal Reserve—reductions  in reserves elicit an adverse effect on ﬁnancial conditions. This tightening in ﬁnancial conditions 
14 
===== PAGE 15 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Fig. 6. Time-Varying Responses of the GS-FCI to a Negative 1 sd Reserve Supply Shock . Note: Each point estimate reﬂects: the mean response over the 
ﬁrst four weeks (top panel), the mean response between the ﬁfth and eighth weeks post shock (second month response in the middle panel), or the mean 
response between the ninth and twelfth weeks post shock (third month response at the bottom panel) for each month in the sample. An increase in the 
GS-FCI represents a tightening of ﬁnancial conditions. Therefore, any point estimate located above the zero line corresponds to a tightening of ﬁnancial 
conditions in response to a negative reserve shock. Conversely, any estimate below the zero line represents a response consistent with an easing of ﬁnancial 
conditions. 
becomes signiﬁcant early in 2018. 11 Though not shown, the response of reserves is relatively stable over time, underscoring 
that the increased sensitivity of ﬁnancial conditions to reserve reductions after September 2017 does not simply reﬂect 
larger percent reductions in reserves. 
The TVP-VAR models further suggest that time variation in the strength of liquidity effects is an important source of the 
time-varying response of ﬁnancial conditions to reserve supply shocks. In particular, Fig. 7 shows the time-varying responses 
of the FF-IOR spread following a one-standard-deviation reduction in the supply of reserves. We ﬁnd that negative reserve 
supply shocks lead to positive effects on the FF-IOR spread, consistent with our interpretation of these innovations as reserve 
supply rather than reserve demand. Moreover, the magnitude of FF-IOR spread responses increase roughly threefold in the 
Asset Runoff period compared with the Full Reinvestment period. The error bands prior to 2017 tend not to overlap with 
those after late 2018. This suggests that the responses of short-term interest rates to reserve supply shocks are meaningfully 
more signiﬁcant, both economically and statistically, after 2018 than before 2017. These conclusions are largely consistent 
with our reduced form analysis in Section 2 . Taken together, our evidence shows a more binding liquidity effect taking place 
11 We found a similar pattern of time-variation in the response of ﬁnancial conditions, when measured by the Bloomberg FCI, following a reduction in 
the supply of reserves. While the responses were slightly more muted in the Bloomberg speciﬁcation, we again found that negative reserve supply shocks 
show indications of a signiﬁcant tightening in ﬁnancial conditions after the initiation of the asset runoff policy. We also considered other ﬁnancial condition 
indicators produced by the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago and St. Louis. We do not report these responses because of the reporting frequency of these 
Federal Reserve indices. While not available daily, these weekly Federal Reserve measures may provide a materially different perspective on ﬁnancial 
conditions. Despite this, we found similar dynamics of the St. Louis Federal Reserve FCI response to those of the GS-FCI. Negative reserve supply shocks 
exert signiﬁcant stress in the St. Louis Fed FCI after 2017. The response was positive prior to 2017 but not statistically signiﬁcant. In contrast, we found an 
adverse response of the Chicago Fed’s FCI throughout the sample, suggesting that Chicago Fed’s FCI seemed to contract following negative reserve supply 
shocks during both the Full Reinvestment and Asset Runoff phases of balance sheet normalization. 
15 
===== PAGE 16 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Fig. 7. Time-Varying Responses of the FF-IOR Spread to a Negative 1 sd Shock in the Supply of Reserves . Note: Each point estimate reﬂects: the ﬁrst 
month response (top panel), the mean response over the second month (middle panel), or the mean response over the third month (bottom panel) for 
each month in the sample. 
in the latter part of the balance sheet unwind period, which is also when we generally obtain evidence of a tightening of 
ﬁnancial conditions following reductions in the supply of reserves. 
Finally, Fig. 8 shows dynamics on the asset side of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet. The response of SOMA assets to 
negative reserve shocks during the Full Reinvestment period are small and imprecisely estimated. In contrast, the Asset Runoff
period saw economically important reductions in SOMA holdings, compatible with our interpretation of negative reserves 
supply shocks emanating from asset redemptions during that phase of QT. These responses are generally consistent both in 
sign and magnitude with our analysis in previous sections. While it can be argued that these congruent effects on the asset 
and liability side of the balance sheet of the Fed could be simply mechanical, they provide for a sensible reality check on 
the suitability of our identiﬁcation strategy. Given that SOMA assets are left wholly unrestricted and placed at the end of 
the VAR, these asset responses are completely driven by the data and bolster our conclusions and interpretations regarding 
the effects of reserve shocks on ﬁnancial conditions. 
Overall, these time-varying effects of balance sheet normalization support our interpretation of innovations to reserves 
as reserve supply shocks stemming from balance sheet normalization. In particular, our estimates show that the nature 
of the relationship between reserve reductions and ﬁnancial conditions changed drastically after September 2017, precisely 
when the Federal Reserve began allowing assets to runoff of its balance sheet. The time-varying impulse responses suggest 
that after September 2017, declines in reserve balances arising from reductions in SOMA holdings tightened overall ﬁnancial 
conditions. However, absent corresponding reductions in asset holdings prior to the Asset Runoff phase, reductions in reserve 
balances alone did not appear to inﬂict similarly adverse effects. We ﬁnd liquidity effects were also markedly different across 
these two phases of balance sheet normalization. In the early sample, the repo- and federal funds rates responses to reserve 
reductions are considerably more muted when compared with the later sample. We conclude that, despite the avoidance 
16 
===== PAGE 17 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Fig. 8. Time-Varying Responses of SOMA Assets to a Negative 1 sd Shock in the Supply of Reserves . Note: Each point estimate reﬂects: the ﬁrst month 
response (top panel), the mean response over the second month (middle panel), or the mean response over the third month (bottom panel) for each month 
in the sample. 
of announcement effects by the Federal Reserve, the combination of reductions in the asset holdings and declining reserve 
balances from lower base levels appears to have tightened U.S. ﬁnancial conditions. 
5. A granular look at quantitative tightening 
To gain insight into the scope and nature of the tightening in ﬁnancial markets, following the Federal Reserve’s unwind- 
ing of past asset purchases, we now take a more granular look across asset classes. In addition, we perform a counterfactual 
analysis to quantify the overall effects of QT on longer-term Treasury rates. We maintain our structural identiﬁcation out- 
lined in Section 4.1 implied by the ordering of the variables in the system speciﬁed by x t . The measure we chose for the 
variable Z t embedded in x t was the GS-FCI. We now model a constant-parameter SVAR and re-estimate our speciﬁcation by 
rotating an indicator of ﬁnancial conditions, or a particular yield or asset price in Z t . We model these variables as a VAR(p): 
θ(L ) x t = e t (11) 
where θ(L ) = I 5 − θ1 L −···− θp L p is a pth order lag polynomial and e t is a mean zero vector of reduced-form VAR residuals 
with a constant covariance matrix R . 12 We recover the underlying structural VAR by specifying the linear mapping, e t = P ϵt , 
between e t , the reduced-form VAR residuals, and ϵt , the structural shocks of interest, where P is block lower-triangular. 13 
12 We also include a constant and dummy variables in the VAR to absorb typical month-, quarter-, year-end as well as holiday dynamics. We use the AIC 
to select four lags. 
13 We conduct inference on our estimated constant-parameter impulse responses from a Bayesian perspective assuming a non-informative natural conju- 
gate prior for θand /Sigma1such that the posterior distribution of θand R are centered at their OLS estimates. We closely follow Koop and Korobilis (2010) when 
implementing this prior. 
17 
===== PAGE 18 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Based on the evidence from the time-varying parameter model that shows strong evidence of deep structural change 
across the Full Reinvestment and Asset Runoff periods, we now study the responses of various yields and asset prices to 
negative reserve supply shocks arising during the Asset Runoff period to better understand the forces that lead the balance 
sheet unwind to tightening overall ﬁnancial conditions. 14 In Fig. 9 we display impulse responses for reserve balances, SOMA 
holdings, the GS-FCI, the 10-year Treasury yield (and its implied term premium), the BBB corporate borrowing rate, the 30- 
year Ginnie Mae current coupon MBS rate, the foreign exchange value of the U.S. dollar against a broad basket of currencies, 
as well as the S&P 500 price index. For each of these variables, we estimate a separate VAR with the yield or asset of 
interest in place of the ﬁnancial conditions index. Each structural VAR is estimated over the Asset Runoff period. 
Figure 9 shows that, during the Asset Runoff period, joint reductions in reserve balances and SOMA holdings imposed 
broad tightening effects across ﬁnancial markets, as evident by the persistent increase in the GS-FCI. As we also witnessed 
in the impulse responses from the TVP-VAR model, reductions in reserve balances led to increases in short-term interest 
rates (SOFR and fed-funds rates), consistent with liquidity effects that would arise from a negative reserve supply shock. 
The 10-year Treasury yield also increases as reserve balances and SOMA holdings decline, contributing to the tightening in 
overall ﬁnancial conditions. 
The increase in the 10-year Treasury rate considerably outpaces the rise in the federal funds rate, suggesting that ris- 
ing term premiums underlie the increase in longer-term Treasury rates. Along these lines, if we assume the VAR impulse 
responses of the federal funds rate proxies the response of the expected future path of short-term interest rates, we can 
calculate the impulse response for the VAR-implied 10-year term premium as the difference between the impulse response 
for this expected future path of short-term interest rates and the impulse response for the 10-year Treasury yield. 15 The 
resulting VAR-implied 10-year Term Premium responses show that nearly all of the increase in longer-term Treasury rates 
stems from increases in the term premium. This rise in longer-term Treasury yields permeates across bond markets to cor- 
porate bond and MBS rates in largely equal magnitudes. MBS yields rise for several weeks, decaying at a similar rate as the 
increase in Treasury yields, whereas BBB corporate bond yields remain elevated throughout the impulse response horizon. 
There are also persistent effects on the broad dollar index with a protracted appreciation of the dollar. 16 Consistent with 
a policy-induced tightening in ﬁnancial conditions, the S&P 500 index declines, although the extent of the equity market 
effects are imprecisely estimated. 
The responses in Fig. 9 provide circumscribed evidence on potential channels and the persistence of the ﬁnancial mar- 
ket effects from unwinding past asset purchases. Despite the fact that the literature remains quite unsettled regarding the 
mechanisms through which LSAPs operate, we ﬁnd evidence of broad—rather  than narrow—effects  across assets stemming 
from balance sheet reductions. For instance, while balance sheet normalization involved reductions in Treasury and agency 
securities, our evidence shows effects of similar magnitude on corporate borrowing rates. The rise in corporate borrowing 
rates does not seem to differ statistically from the movements in Treasury term premia—perhaps  evocative of broad duration 
effects. While the LSAP literature is also divided on the persistence of the effects of asset purchases, the ﬁnancial market 
effects from unwinding the balance sheet that we have identiﬁed appear to fade after several months. Although movements 
in corporate bond yields and the foreign exchange value of the dollar prove to be somewhat more persistent. 
Our granular analysis also sheds light on the overall impact of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet runoff program on 
longer-term interest rates. The estimated structural VAR effects are not permanent “stock” effects of the sort implicit in an 
event study. Thus, a simple visual inspection of the response of the 10-year Treasury yield at a single horizon cannot be 
relied upon to extrapolate the overall consequences of the runoff of asset holdings over the 2017–2019 period. Instead, the 
structural VAR provides dynamic responses that peak in the ﬁrst several weeks and then diminish over time. This implies 
that the effect of QT on the 10-year yield at any point in time also depends on the extent and speed of the past runoff. 
In an effort to better quantify the effects of quantitative tightening, we simulate a counterfactual scenario from the 
structural VAR model to infer how much QT raised the 10-year yield. Speciﬁcally, in contrast to the realized sequence of 
reserve supply shocks that took place amid the runoff of SOMA holdings, we assume that the FOMC instead continued 
to fully reinvest maturing SOMA holdings, thereby counterfactually keeping reserve balances and SOMA holdings roughly 
constant over the Asset Runoff sample. The difference between realized data and this counterfactual reveals that the peak 
effect of the $650 billion reduction in asset holdings on the 10-year Treasury yield was about 40 basis points (occurring 
in mid-2018) and QT raised the average 10-year Treasury yield by about 8 basis points over the entire Asset Runoff period 
(Oct 2017 through August 2019). 17 To provide some perspective of this estimate in the context of federal funds rate changes, 
the conversion in Williams (2014) suggests that this is the same movement in longer-term rates one would expect from an 
increase in the federal funds rate of about 40 basis points. 
14 In results available upon request, we conﬁrmed that the pattern of insigniﬁcance and signiﬁcance of impulse responses of the GS-FCI is maintained in 
the constant parameter VAR model across the two samples. Additionally, this standard VAR found substantially more muted responses of SOMA holdings, 
as well as Repo spreads, in the Full Reinvestment period—also  consistent with results from the TVP-VAR counterpart. 
15 Speciﬁcally, for each impulse response horizon h = 0 , . . . , 28 , we deﬁne the expected path of short-term interest rates over the next 10 years by 
ExpectedPath h = 1 
520 
∑ 520 
τ=1 F F h + τ. Then, we deﬁne the VAR-Implied 10-year Term Premium by T P 10 − yr 
h = T reasury 10 − yr 
h − ExpectedPath h . 
16 Chari et al. (2020) present evidence generally consistent with this as they ﬁnd that money ﬂowed from emerging market countries into the U.S. when 
the Federal Reserve tapered its pace of asset purchases. 
17 For comparison, Swanson (2020) reports that, based on the LSAP literature, $600 billion in medium- and longer-term Treasury purchases lowers the 
10-year Treasury rate by 15 basis points. Therefore, our estimates of the effects of QT are within the range of estimates (and standard errors) from the 
LSAP literature. 
18
===== PAGE 19 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Fig. 9. Responses of Individual Yields and Assets to a Negative 1 sd Reserve Supply Shock . Note: Each subplot shows impulse responses from a separately 
estimated structural VAR model (with the exception of the Reserve Balances, SOMA Holdings, GS-FCI, Repo Spread, and the Fed Funds Spread responses, 
which are from a single VAR model). The solid lines denote the empirical point estimate to a one standard deviation shock and the shaded areas denote 
the 16%–84% probability interval of the posterior distribution. 
19 
===== PAGE 20 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
An interesting question that arises from these ﬁndings is: Given the known maturity date of Treasury SOMA holdings, 
what is it about the runoff of the balance sheet that raises longer-term Treasury rates? 18 One explanation may come from 
research showing that even largely anticipated events, such as Treasury auctions, can have a discrete effect on ﬁnancial 
markets at the time of the event due to underlying frictions and slow-moving capital ( Lou et al., 2013 ). Therefore, one 
implication of our work for central banks unwinding their balance sheets is that even a well-telegraphed reduction in asset 
holdings may nevertheless have tightening effects once executed. 
6. Conclusion 
The Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, the Bank of England, and the Bank of Japan all took actions to expand 
their balance sheets amid an unprecedented global economic contraction caused by the COVID-19 pandemic—all  the while 
constrained by a dearth of available conventional policy space. As central banks normalize their balance sheets, a better 
understanding of the ramiﬁcations of exiting from these unconventional policies is necessary. However, prior to this study, 
there has been little empirical analysis of the ﬁnancial market consequences of balance sheet normalization. This leaves 
central bankers with limited guidance on the realities of unwinding past asset purchases. Our aim in this paper is to shed 
light on this important, but less well understood, dimension of balance sheet policy. 
We provide a preponderance of evidence—from  the TVP-VAR model as well as constant-parameter VAR models—that,  
despite the avoidance of announcement effects by the Federal Reserve, the combination of reductions in the asset hold- 
ings and declining reserve balances from late 2017 through much of 2019 strained ﬁnancial conditions. Given important 
differences in the structure and global role of ﬁnancial markets across various economies, the direct applicability of our 
quantitative ﬁndings to other central banks may be reasonably questioned. However, we ﬁnd one widely applicable result 
worth highlighting: the consequences of unwinding past balance sheet expansions are unlikely to simply manifest as a QE 
policy in reverse. Instead, stark differences in the nature of balance sheet unwinds versus expansions, together with impor- 
tant differences in the prevailing economic and ﬁnancial conditions at the time of exit, are likely to culminate in markedly 
different dynamics than those that appeared upon implementation. Consequently, knowledge of the effects of LSAP policies 
alone appears rather insuﬃcient to fully gauge the effects of balance sheet normalization, underscoring the need for further 
research on this important monetary policy issue. 
Data availability 
Data will be made available on request. 
References 
Afonso, G., Cipriani, M., Copeland, A.M., Kovner, A., La Spada, G., Martin, A., 2020. The Market Events of Mid-September 2019. FRB of New York Staff Report 
918 . 
Anbil, S., Anderson, A., Senyuz, Z., 2021. Are Repo Markets Fragile? Evidence from September 2019. Technical Report. Mimeo . 
Bailey, A., 2020. Central bank reserves can’t be taken for granted. https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2020- 06- 22/ 
andrew-bailey-central-bank-reserves-can-t-be-taken-for-granted  . 
Bauer, M., Rudebusch, G.D., 2014. The signaling channel for federal reserve bond purchases. Int. J. Cent. Bank. . 
Bernanke, B.S., 2008. Federal Reserve Policies in the Financial Crisis: A Speech at the Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce, Austin, Texas, December 1, 
2008. Speech. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (U.S.) . 
Bernanke, B. S., 2017. Shrinking the fed’s balance sheet. https://www.brookings.edu/blog/ben-bernanke/2017/01/26/shrinking- the- feds- balance- sheet/ . 
Bernanke, B.S., Mihov, I., 1998. Measuring monetary policy. Q. J. Econ. 113 (3), 869–902 . 
Bhattarai, S., Eggertsson, G.B., Gafarov, B., 2015. Time Consistency and the Duration of Government Debt: A Signalling Theory of Quantitative Easing. Tech- 
nical Report. National Bureau of Economic Research . 
Carpenter, S., Demiralp, S., Ihrig, J., Klee, E., 2015. Analyzing federal reserve asset purchases: from whom does the fed buy? J. Bank. Finance 52, 230–244 . 
Chari, A., Dilts-Stedman, K., Lundblad, C., 2020. Taper tantrums: quantitative easing, its aftermath, and emerging market capital ﬂows. Rev. Financ. Stud. . 
Forthcoming 
Christensen, J.H., Gillan, J.M., 2022. Does quantitative easing affect market liquidity? J. Bank. Finance 134, 106349 . 
Christiano, L.J., Eichenbaum, M., Evans, C., 1996. The effects of monetary policys shocks: evidence from the ﬂow of funds. Rev. Econ. Stat. 78 (1), 16–34 . 
Cogley, T., Sargent, T.J., 2005. Drifts and volatilities: monetary policies and outcomes in the post WWII US. Rev. Econ. Dyn. 8 (2), 262–302 . 
Copeland, A., Duﬃe, D., Yang, Y., 2021. Reserves Were Not So Ample After All. Technical Report. Federal Reserve Bank of New York . 
Curdia, V., Woodford, M., 2016. Credit frictions and optimal monetary policy. J. Monet. Econ. 84, 30–65. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoneco.2016.10.003 . 
Del Negro, M., Primiceri, G.E., 2015. Time varying structural vector autoregressions and monetary policy: a corrigendum. Rev. Econ. Stud. 82 (4), 1342–1345 . 
Demiralp, S., Eisenschmidt, J., Vlassopoulos, T., 2019. Negative Interest Rates, Excess Liquidity and Retail Deposits: Banks’ Reaction to Unconventional Mon- 
etary Policy in the Euro Area. ECB Working paper . 
Dilts-Stedman, K., 2019. Unconventional Monetary Policy,(A) Synchronicity and the Yield Curve. Technical Report. Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City RWP 
19-09 . 
D’Amico, S., English, W., López-Salido, D., Nelson, E., 2012. The federal reserve’s large-scale asset purchase programmes: rationale and effects. Econ. J. 122 
(564), F415–F446 . 
D’Amico, S., King, T.B., 2013. Flow and stock effects of large-scale treasury purchases: evidence on the importance of local supply. J. Financ. Econ. 108 (2), 
425–448 . 
Gagnon, J., Raskin, M., Remache, J., Sack, B., et al., 2011. The ﬁnancial market effects of the federal reserve’s large-scale asset purchases. Int. J. Cent. Bank. 7 
(1), 3–43 . 
18 Even if the maturity of Treasury holdings is known, the runoff of MBS securities was stochastic as a result of unpredictable pre-payment patterns. 
20 
===== PAGE 21 =====
A.L. Smith and V.J. Valcarcel Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control 146 (2023) 104582 
Garbade, K., Ingber, J., 2005. The treasury auction process: objectives, structure, and recent adaptations. Curr. Issues Econ. Finance 11 (2) . 
Greenlaw, D., Hamilton, J.D., Harris, E., West, K.D., 2018. A Skeptical View of the Impact of the Fed’s Balance Sheet. Technical Report. National Bureau of 
Economic Research . 
Hamilton, J.D., 1997. Measuring the liquidity effect. Am. Econ. Rev. 80–97 . 
Hanson, S.G., Stein, J.C., 2015. Monetary policy and long-term real rates. J. Financ. Econ. 115, 429–448 . 
Hatzius, J., Stehn, S.J., 2018. The Case for a Financial Conditions Index. Global Economic Paper . July 16 
Ihrig, J., Klee, E., Li, C., Wei, M., Kachovec, J., 2018. Expectations about the federal reserve’s balance sheet and the term structure of interest rates. Int. J. 
Cent. Bank. . 
Ihrig, J.E., Senyuz, Z., Weinbach, G.C., 2020. The Fed’s ǣAmple Reserves ǥ Approach to Implementing Monetary Policy. Finance and Economics Discussion 
Series. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System . 
Ireland, P.N., 2014. The macroeconomic effects of interest on reserves. Macroecon. Dyn. 18, 1271–1312 . 
Iwata, S., Wu, S., 2006. Estimating monetary policy effects when interest rates are close to zero. J. Monet. Econ. 53 (7), 1395–1408 . 
Jacquier, E., Polson, N.G., Rossi, P.E., 2002. Bayesian analysis of stochastic volatility models. J. Bus. Econ. Stat. 20 (1), 69–87 . 
Kandrac, J., Schlusche, B., 2013. Flow effects of large-scale asset purchases. Econ. Lett. 121 (2), 330–335 . 
Kim, S., Shephard, N., Chib, S., 1998. Stochastic volatility: likelihood inference and comparison with arch models. Rev. Econ. Stud. 65 (3), 361–393 . 
Koop, G., Korobilis, D., 2010. Bayesian Multivariate Time Series Methods for Empirical Macroeconomics. Now Publishers Inc . 
Krishnamurthy, A., Vissing-Jorgensen, A., 2011. The effects of quantitative easing on interest rates: channels and implications for policy. Brookings Pap. Econ. 
Act. 43 (2), 215–287 . 
Krishnamurthy, A., Vissing-Jorgensen, A., 2013. The ins and outs of LSAPs. In: Proceedings-Economic Policy Symposium-Jackson Hole. Federal Reserve Bank 
of Kansas City, pp. 57–111 . 
Lou, D., Yan, H., Zhang, J., 2013. Anticipated and repeated shocks in liquid markets. Rev. Financ. Stud. 26 (8), 1891–1912 . 
Martin, A., McAndrews, J., Palida, A., Skeie, D.R., 2019. Federal Reserve Tools for Managing Rates and Reserves. Technical Report. Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York Staff Report No. 642 . 
Powell, J., 2018. June 2018 post-FOMC press conference. https://www.federalreserve.gov/mediacenter/ﬁles/FOMCpresconf20180613.pdf . 
Powell, J., 2020. Treasury secretary Mnuchin and federal reserve chair Powell testify before house committee. https://www.c- span.org/video/?506828- 1/ 
treasury-secretary- mnuchin- federal- reserve- chair- powell- testify- house- committee . 
Primiceri, G.E., 2005. Time varying structural vector autoregressions and monetary policy. Rev. Econ. Stud. 72 (3), 821–852 . 
Smith, A.L., 2019. Do changes in reserve balances still inﬂuence the federal funds rate? Econ. Rev. 104 (1), 5–34 . 
Strongin, S., 1995. The identiﬁcation of monetary policy disturbances explaining the liquidity puzzle. J. Monet. Econ. 35 (3), 463–497 . 
Swanson, E.T., 2020. Measuring the effects of federal reserve forward guidance and asset purchases on ﬁnancial markets. J. Monet. Econ. . Forthcoming 
Vayanos, D., Vila, J.-L., 2021. A preferred-habitat model of the term structure of interest rates. Econometrica 89 (1), 77–112 . 
Williams, J.C., 2014. Monetary Policy at the Zero Lower Bound: Putting Theory into Practice. Hutchins Center Working Papers . 
Woodford, M., 2012. Methods of policy accommodation at the interest-rate lower bound. In: Proceedings-Economic Policy Symposium-Jackson Hole. Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City, pp. 185–288 . 
Wright, J.H., 2012. What does monetary policy do to long-term interest rates at the zero lower bound? Econ. J. 122 (564), F447–F466 . 
Yellen, J., 2017. June 2017 post-FOMC press conference. https://www.federalreserve.gov/mediacenter/ﬁles/FOMCpresconf20170614.pdf . 
21 