

On the Optimal Supply of Reserves - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK

Speech

On the Optimal Supply of Reserves

        May 22, 2025
  

John C. Williams
    , President and Chief Executive Officer
    
  

    Remarks at the New York Fed – Columbia SIPA Monetary Policy Implementation Workshop, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, New York City
    
As prepared for delivery

Let me start by personally  welcoming you to the New York Fed. We have enjoyed a long and productive  relationship with Columbia’s School of International and Public Affairs, or SIPA,  and it’s great to be here to discuss timely and important issues.

  The topic of my talk today  is the optimal supply of central bank reserves. Prior to the global financial  crisis, this issue was more or less settled. Then, in response to that crisis  and the ensuing economic downturn—and again following the COVID-19 pandemic—many  central banks expanded their balance sheets through various quantitative easing  programs funded for the most part by large-scale increases in central bank  reserves. These increases resulted in fundamental changes in ways central banks  have approached the provision of reserves while maintaining control of  short-term interest rates set by the monetary policymaking body. As a result of  these experiences in managing large balance sheets, many central banks have  reviewed, and in some cases modified, their strategies for supplying reserves  and controlling interest rates. Although their approaches have differed in specifics,  they share common elements that reflect the fundamental factors that shape the  supply and demand for reserves.
1

  Central banks have  multiple goals in supplying reserves to the banking system that frequently  involve trade-offs.
2
 First and foremost, they target a level of the policy interest rate and aim to  minimize the variability of the policy rate around that target. In addition,  they have goals related to supporting the functioning of financial markets and  financial stability. For example, central banks may see advantages or  disadvantages to interbank lending in money markets, as well as costs and  benefits related to central bank lending into markets. 

  In this talk, I will consider  this question using a relatively simple analytical framework for the supply and  demand of reserves that can be applied to various jurisdictions with  differences in institutional arrangements and policy objectives. I see this  exercise as being in the spirit of William Poole’s seminal analysis of the  optimal instrument for monetary policy.
3
 My goal is to provide a  useful background for the rich discussion ahead of us at this conference and  elsewhere.

  I should emphasize that  the substance of my remarks is based on my joint research with Gara Afonso,  Gabriele La Spada, and Thomas Mertens, and I have also benefited greatly from what  I have learned from my amazing colleagues at the New York Fed and on the BIS  Markets Committee. They deserve the credit, and I get to give the standard Fed  disclaimer that the views I express today are mine alone and do not necessarily  reflect those of the Federal Open Market Committee or others in the Federal  Reserve System. 

The Demand for Reserves

  The key building block  of this analysis is that the demand for central bank reserves is inherently nonlinear  and subject to uncertainty. For those who are interested, all the equations,  Greek letters, and mathematical proofs are in the paper. For this presentation,  I will stick to words and pictures to describe the model and results.
4
 

  Specifically, a central  bank faces a demand curve for reserves that describes the relationship between  the quantity of reserves and the spread between the policy rate and the  interest rate on reserves. This is illustrated by 
Figure 1
, which shows the  relationship between the level of reserves in the United States, normalized by  banking assets, and the spread between the federal funds rate and the interest  paid on reserves from 2015 to early 2020, before the onset of the pandemic. The  spread represents the price of reserves, and the shape of the demand curve is  the result of a trade-off: Banks receive benefits from holding reserves, but they  also incur costs. Since the net benefits decline with the quantity of reserves  held, the curve is nonlinear with a lower asymptote. 

  As shown in 
Figure 2
, this  relationship can be represented in a stylized way by a piecewise linear demand curve  characterized by three regions. For a low level of reserves, the slope of the  demand curve is steep. A small change in the quantity of reserves results in a  meaningful change in the spread. This is referred to as the “scarce reserves” region.  At a sufficiently large level of reserves, the slope of the demand curve  flattens but is still downward-sloping. This region is called “ample reserves.”  At an even larger level of reserves, the demand curve is flat. This region is  called “abundant reserves.” The point at which reserves become abundant is  labeled X
A 
in the figure. For reserves above that level, the spread  is constant at 
. 

  So far, I have described  the demand for reserves as if it were fixed and known. However, there is  considerable evidence that this demand curve in the U.S. has shifted at times over  the past 15 years.
5
 I will now introduce uncertainty by including random variation in the demand  for reserves, as represented by leftward and  rightward shifts in the value of the cutoff for abundant reserves, ΧA.
6
 Such variation  is illustrated in 
Figure 3
, where I have simplified the model to two regions—ample  and abundant reserves. And the demand shock is indicated by the random variable  ε. For a given quantity of reserves X, large shocks have asymmetric effects on  the resulting level of the spread, as illustrated in the figure. This  asymmetric effect is due to the nonlinearity of the demand curve. A sizable  positive shock to demand has a larger effect on the spread than a negative  shock of equal magnitude, where in the latter case, the presence of the flat  demand curve limits the decline in the spread.

  Because positive shocks  raise interest spreads more than negative shocks lower them, the net effect of  shocks is to raise the spread on average. That is, the combination of random  variation in demand and a nonlinear demand curve implies that for a given  quantity of reserves, the resulting stochastic mean level of the spread is  above the value implied by the demand curve absent uncertainty. This  relationship is illustrated by the solid red line in 
Figure 4
, which again assumes  there are only two regions. The difference between the mean value of the spread  under uncertainty and the corresponding deterministic value, shown by the black  line, is greatest for levels of reserves in the vicinity of the cutoff between  ample and abundant reserves under the deterministic curve.

The Optimal Supply of Reserves

  I’ll now turn to the  central bank’s problem of selecting the optimal provision of reserves given the  nonlinear demand curve and uncertainty. A central bank is assumed to target a  level of the spread, denoted by Ŝ, that lies in the region of ample reserves.  The choice of the target spread reflects considerations related to the  efficient functioning of money markets and the provision of interbank lending  that facilitates the redistribution of reserves across banks.
7
 In the following, I take this  as a fixed, exogenous target.

  The central bank has  potentially two tools that it can use to achieve this objective. First, it sets  the aggregate level of reserves available to the banking system, as defined by  the variable X. Second, it may make available a lending facility to the banking  system that offers loans to banks at an interest rate, which I will represent by  L. For ease of exposition, I assume that this lending facility has unlimited  capacity, but later, I will discuss the implications of putting constraints or  costs on its use.
8
 

  In a deterministic world  without uncertainty, this problem is easy to solve. The central bank sets the  optimal level of reserves equal to the value consistent with the intersection  of the demand curve with the target spread. This is labeled by X* on 
Figure 4
.  In this case, perfect interest rate control is achieved at the targeted level without  a lending facility.

  In the presence of  uncertainty regarding the demand for reserves, the problem is more interesting.  If the central bank must set the level of reserves and the rate on the lending  facility before the demand shock is realized, it can no longer perfectly  control the spread. To make things precise, I assume the central bank has a  quadratic objective function—that is, it minimizes the mean squared difference  between the realized spread and its target rate. With this specification of the  objective, the central bank’s problem can be described by the sum of two parts:  the squared difference between the mean spread and the target and the variance  of the spread. 

  With all of this  preparation, I can now derive the optimal supply of reserves. I will start with  the special case where there is no lending facility. This simplifies the  exposition while conveying clearly a key result. 

Case 1: No Lending Facility

  Let me cut to the chase:  Absent a lending facility, the optimal supply of reserves under uncertainty is  unequivocally higher than it is without uncertainty. This finding is the result  of two effects that create a precautionary motive to add to the supply of  reserves to guard against a positive demand shock. First, as I discussed  earlier, for a given level of reserves, the presence of uncertainty increases  the mean spread. Second, increasing the supply of reserves reduces the variance  of the spread because there is a greater probability of being on the flat part  of the demand curve. 

  Indeed, if the  uncertainty is great enough, the optimal level of reserves can exceed the  cutoff for abundant reserves under no uncertainty. That is, uncertainty can  imply that it is optimal to supply abundant reserves even if the central bank’s  target spread is in the ample reserves region, as I have assumed.

  Although uncertainty  increases the optimal supply of reserves, the resulting mean level of the  spread may rise or fall with uncertainty. This ambiguous result owes to  uncertainty increasing the mean spread for a given level of reserves, while the  higher optimal level of reserves reduces the spread. Therefore, one cannot  judge whether the policy is optimal simply because the mean spread equals its  target. 

Case 2: Lending Facility

  I now consider the case  where there is a lending facility. There are a number of factors that influence  the choice of the facility lending rate and the conditions of use for such a  facility.
9
 For the present purposes, I  do not explicitly analyze these factors but instead assume the spread between the  facility lending rate and the interest rate on reserves is set exogenously at a  level L above the target spread and is invariant to the quantity of reserves.  If the intersection of demand and reserves supply occurs at a spread above L,  the incremental demand is assumed to be met by the lending facility. Such a  situation is illustrated as the solid green horizonal line in 
Figure 5
.

  In addition, I assume  that there are frictions or costs associated with the scale of the use of the  lending facility. I model this as an additional quadratic penalty in the  central bank’s objective that’s associated with the magnitude of lending  facility usage.
10
 For example, such a penalty could reflect the view that heavy and regular use  of the lending facility fosters an overreliance on the central bank for funding  needs that should be tempered. 

  With a lending facility,  the choice of the optimal supply of reserves takes into account the fact that  the spread is capped at the lending rate. This mitigates the precautionary  motive for supplying reserves to guard against a positive demand shock. This  effect is greatest when the lending rate is closer to the target spread. On the  other hand, if the lending rate is very high relative to the target spread,  then the facility is rarely used, and the optimal supply of reserves is near  what it would be absent a facility. 

  The choice of the  optimal level of reserves also reflects the trade-off between reducing excess  reserves and incurring the costs of additional usage of the facility: The  greater the cost incurred for usage of the facility, the higher the optimal  level of reserves. In particular, if the costs associated with usage of the  facility are relatively small, then the optimal supply of reserves is lower  than it would be absent the lending facility. But if the costs are sufficiently  large, the optimal supply may exceed that in absence of a lending facility to  guard against extensive use of the facility.

Conclusion

  This analytical  framework for the supply and demand of reserves under uncertainty provides  valuable insights into the factors affecting the optimal supply of reserves and  the design of liquidity facilities. First, absent a lending facility, the  optimal supply of reserves under uncertainty is greater than it would be absent  uncertainty. Second, the ideal choice for the supply of reserves depends on  institutional factors, such as the pricing of and frictions related to  liquidity facilities as well as preferences over the various goals related to monetary  policy implementation. In other words, there is no single best way to supply  reserves; rather, the best mix of tools depends on circumstances and policy  preferences unique to each jurisdiction. 

Figures
 

1
 See, for example, the policy  implementation frameworks descriptions for the 
Bank of Canada
, the 
Bank of England
, the 
European Central Bank
, 
Federal Reserve System
, and the 
Reserve Bank of Australia.

2
 See Afonso, Gara, Gabriele La Spada,  Thomas M. Mertens, and John C. Williams. 2023. “
The Optimal Supply of Central Bank  Reserves under Uncertainty
.”  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Staff Reports
, no. 1077, revised  December, for discussion and references to the relevant literature.

3
 Poole, William, 1968. “Commercial  Bank Reserve Management in a Stochastic Model: Implications for  Monetary Policy,” 
The Journal of Finance
, 
23 
(5), 769–91. 
https://doi.org/10.2307/2325906
.

4
 See Gara Afonso, Domenico Giannone,  Gabriele La Spada, and John C. Williams, 2022, “
Scarce, Abundant, or Ample? A  Time-Varying Model of the Reserve Demand Curve,
” Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Staff Reports,
 no. 1019, revised April 2024, for a detailed description  of a model of the demand for reserves and empirical evidence on its shape.

5
 See 
Afonso et al. (2022, revised 2024)
 for evidence on such shifts.

6
 The following follows 
Afonso et al. (2023)
. That paper also considers other  sources of uncertainty about the demand for reserves, including uncertainty  about the slope of the demand curve and vertical shifts in that affect the  entire demand curve.

7
 See 
Afonso et al. (2023)
 for a discussion and references to  the relevant literature.

8
 I assume that there is no stigma or  similar reluctance to borrow from the facility so that the lending rate  provides a firm cap on the spread.

9
 For example, in some jurisdictions,  the lending facility is designed to be a backstop that is only used  intermittingly and the spread between the lending rate and interest on reserves  is set at a relatively high level. In other jurisdictions, the lending facility  aims to provide a tighter limit on upward movements in interest rates and the  lending spread is set close to or at the target spread.

10
 This assumption of a quadratic cost  facilitates the analysis. An alternative approach would be to limit the total  amount of lending, and the implications would be similar.
 

By continuing to use our site, you agree to our 
Terms of Use
 and 
Privacy Statement
. You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our 
Privacy Statement
.   

Request a Speaker

International Seminars & Training

Governance & Culture Reform

Data Visualization

Economic Research 
Tracker

Markets Data APIs

Podcast

Contact Us

Terms of Use

Privacy

Site Map

