 
DISCLOSURE APPENDIX AT THE BACK OF THIS REPORT CONTAINS IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES AND 
ANALYST CERTIFICATIONS.   
CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES RESEARCH & ANALYTICS BEYOND INFORMATION® 
 Client-Driven Solutions, Insights, and Access 
 
Global Money Notes #4 
 
 
 
A Tool of Their Own – The Foreign RRP Facility 
Since the FOMC hiked interest rates in December, more than $100 billion in 
non-operating deposits have left the banking system. 
However, it was not the o/n RRP facility that absorbed these outflows. Rather, it 
was the U.S. Treasury bill market with the help of the foreign RRP facility. 
Many clients have asked the Fed about the foreign RRP facility,  and the 
response they got was that it is just a service offering for foreign central banks. 
But in our view it is more, far more than "just" a service offering. 
It is a policy tool the Fed has been using to exert an upward pressure on bill 
yields and to facilitate the draining of reserves and the rotation of cash pools out 
of non -operating deposits and into Treasury bills. At a takeup of $ 220 billion  
(and rising), the foreign RRP facility is already a more prominent policy tool than 
the o/n RRP for money f unds with a trend takeup of a mere $80 billion  (and 
falling) – not bad for a policy tool that no Fed official has ever mentioned before. 
For bank equity and fixed income investors with an eye on whether the outflow 
of non -operating deposits will force bank s to re balance HQLA portfolios, the 
new news in this issue of Global Money Notes is that we are far deeper into the 
process of deposit outflows ($300 billion and accelerating) than what the 
smaller-than-expected take up in the o/n RRP facility would have us believe 
(looking at o/n RRP volumes, one would assume outflows are not happening). 
The $100 billion in non -operating deposits that have flown out of banks since 
the December rate hike are big enough to force some big banks to re balance 
between Level 2 and Level 1 assets in their HQLA portfolio in order to remain 
compliant with the letter and spirit of the liquidity coverage ratio. The maximum 
some banks can lose is $30 billion before their Level 2 limits are breached – 
and $100 billion in outflows since December mean that this scenario is now live. 
It is one thing if these re balancing flows are driven by the gradual outflow of 
non-operating deposits – the resulting trades may occur gradually, over time. 
But it’s a completely different matter if they are forced by the Fed on compliance 
grounds and at banks where deposit outflows have not triggered them yet. 
Since the December rate hike large U.S. banks have sold $10 billion in agency 
MBS and bought $13 billion in Treasuries. Whether these re balancing flows  
have been triggered by the outflow on non -operating deposits or regulatory 
push to make U.S. G -SIBs comply with global HQLA portfolio composition 
benchmarks we do not know. But if it is the latter, flows out of MBS and into 
Treasuries could be substantial : $100 billion at best and $175 billion at worse 
with obvious implications for the mortgage basis, bank NIM s and mortgage 
REITs. 
 
 
Research Analysts 
Zoltan Pozsar 
212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
 
 
 
07 February 2016 
Economic Research 
 
  
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  2 
Policy innovations have thrown a cu rve ball to our view that non -operating deposits will 
flow out of banks and into money funds via the o/n RRP facility. 
Non-operating deposits are indeed on their way out of the banking system. Since the 
beginning of 2015 there have been  $400 billion in deposit outflows and a corresponding 
decline in banks’ excess reserve balances at the Federal Reserve (see Figure 1). 
Half of these outflows came from JPMorgan proactively driving $200 billion of non -
operating deposits off its balance sheet, completing this process before the December rate 
hike. $100 billion occurred at other banks since the December ra te hike and reflect s a 
voluntary choice by investors to trade out of non -operating deposits and into other 
instruments. And for the sake of completeness the remaining $100 billion reflects the 
trend-like annual increase in currency in circulation as househ olds withdraw deposits to 
finance their daily payment needs (an interesting factoid but not the focus of this analysis). 
But the destination of non-operating deposit outflows did not turn out to be government-
only money market funds via the o/n RRP facility. 
We did get a full -allotment o/n RRP facility, but not only did its usage not go up since the 
hike; it actually declined! And therein lies the rub: as long as the size of the Federal 
Reserve's balance sheet is unchanged (and it did not change one penny) , if one liability 
line item (reserves) is falling due to deposit outflows, other liability line items must be rising.  
Figure 1: Tracking the Reserves Drain 
$ billions 
-600
-400
-200
0
200
400
600
-600
-400
-200
0
200
400
600
Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 Jul-15 Oct-15 Jan-16
[1] Reserves (ex q-ends) [2] ↑T-Bill supply for private cash pools (ex q-ends) [4] o/n RRPs (w/ MMFs) [3] + currency
Rebased, October 1, 2014 = 0.0
 
Source: Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse 
We will discuss these other liability lines items in detail below, but for now suffice it to say 
that in the aggregate their increase represents an increase in the supply of Treasury bills 
available for private institutional cash pools  (the cash balances of asset managers, hedge 
funds, private equity funds and other investors) as they trade out of non-operating deposits. 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  3 
In fact, the effective supply of bills available to private investors is up by more than $400 
billion since October 2015, an amount in excess of the volume of non -operating deposits 
that have already left the banking system. And similar to the pace of deposit outflows, 
which have accelerated since the December hike, the pace at which the effective supply of 
Treasury bills available for cash pools has been accelerating since the rate hike as well. 
Other Ways to Drain 
Other than o/n RRPs with money funds there are at least two other ways through which 
reserves can be drained and the  outflow of non -operating deposits from banks to other 
corners of the financial system can be greased. As shown in Figure 2, these are: 
1. …the U.S. Treasury boosting its cash balances in the Treasury General Account 
(TGA) at the New York Fed, and 
2. …foreign central banks boosting their usage of an RRP facility the New York Fed 
maintains exclusively for them (a facility that is separate from the much talked about 
o/n RRP facility for other financial institutions, such as money funds). 
Figure 2: More Treasury Bills for Private Cash Pools 
$ billions 
-600
-400
-200
0
200
400
600
-600
-400
-200
0
200
400
600
Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 Jul-15 Oct-15 Jan-16
U.S. Treasury (↑cash balances/bills) o/n RRPs w/ foreign central banks [1] Reserves (ex q-ends)
[2] ↑T-Bill supply for private cash pools (ex q-ends) [4] o/n RRPs (w/ MMFs)
Rebased, October 1, 2014 = 0.0
 
Source: Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse 
Like any asset on any balance sheet, the cash balances of the Treasury need funding as 
well. Given that Treasury earns no interest on its ca sh balances at the Fed, it finances 
them in the cheapest possible way which are one -month bills. Buying these bills will be 
cash pools that heretofore have been sitting in non -operating deposits earning zero. When 
cash pools buy these bills, they spend a p ortion of their non -operating deposits (an asset 
swap). This results in a decline (outflow) of non -operating deposits and an equivalent loss 
of reserves in the banking system. Offsetting these declines will be an increase in the cash 
balances of the Treasury financed by bills in amounts equivalent to the amount of reserves 
and non-operating deposits lost by the banking system, closing the loop (see Figure 3). 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  4 
Since the resolution of the debt ceiling in October, the Treasury boosted its cash balances 
from $50 billion to nearly $350 billion and funded this by issuing that much in additional 
bills. On the flipside, this facilitated the flow of that much in non -operating deposits out of 
the banking system and into the bill market. This way of draining reserves is approaching 
its limits, however. At a recent TBAC meeting (see minutes) the Treasury floated the idea 
of boosting its cash balances to $500 billion but not beyond – we are only $150 billion 
away from that limit  (like banks, the Treasury has balance sheet constraints as well, it  is 
just that Treasury’s constraints are not imposed by regulations but rather by Congress). 
But even if we were to reach capacity in this way of draining reserves, there would still be 
other avenues to use. This is where the Fed's foreign RRP facility comes in. 
Figure 3: Swapping Reserves for TGA Balances 
Conceptually, think of the U.S. Treasury as taking over th e “money dealer” function presently played by banks.  
Step 1:
Reserves Reserves Deposits Deposits
Step 2:
Reserves Reserves Deposits Deposits
TGA T-Bills
TGA T-Bills
Notes: TGA = Treasury General Account
U.S. Treasury
Federal Reserve Banks Cash Pools
Federal Reserve Banks Cash Pools
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
There are two types of assets on which foreign central banks can draw to boost their 
balances in the Fed's foreign RRP facility – bank deposits and holdings of Treasury bills. 
First, consider a foreign central bank wiring funds from its bank deposit into the foreign 
RRP facility. This would be an asset swap for the foreign central bank (deposits for RRPs); 
a decline in both liabilities (deposits) and assets (reserves) for banks ; and a liability swap 
for the Fed (reserves for RRPs). However, looking at the operating and non -operating 
balances that foreign governments (including foreign central banks) maintain at banks in 
New York (including both large U.S. banks and the New York b ranches of foreign banks) 
we have not seen any meaningful outflows recently (see Figure 4). This makes sense as 
the HQLA requirements associated with foreign central banks' non -operating deposits are 
not that onerous: 40% at worst (the same as for corpora te non-operating deposits), which 
is far less than the more punitive 100% requirement for buy -side non-operating deposits. 
As such, banks do not have much of an incentive to push foreign central banks' deposits 
off their books since that would leave them with an HQLA shortfall (see page 10 here). 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  5 
Figure 4: Foreign Governments’ Bank Deposits 
$ billions 
50
70
90
110
130
150
170
190
210
07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15
Foreign governments' U.S. dollar deposits in U.S. and foreign banks (booked both on and offhsore)
Foreign governments' deposits at U.S. G-SIBs only
 
Source: Call Reports (FDIC), Credit Suisse 
The second source on which foreign central banks can draw to boost their balances in the 
foreign RRP facility are their holdings of U.S. Treasury bills. Here the process is a s simple 
as trading out of bills and wiring the proceeds out of a bank account over into the foreign 
RRP facility. Whether it is proceeds from the sale of bills in secondary markets or bill 
maturities that get wired over into the foreign RRP facility does not matter. What matters is 
that by trading out of bills, foreign central banks free up more bills for private cash pools to 
buy as cash pools trade out of non-operating deposits. Consider two examples. 
Imagine a foreign central bank that sells bills in the secondary market. As it sells bills its 
bank deposits go up (an asset swap). On the flipside of this trade cash pool s buy the bills 
and spend  bank deposits (also an asset swap, but in the opposite direction). While the 
cash pool was invested in a bank d eposit it did not have the option to wire its balances 
over into RRPs at the Fed, but the foreign central bank does have that option and 
exercises it. It makes yet another asset swap (this time deposits for RRPs). In the process, 
banks lose both deposits a nd reserves, and the central bank swaps reserves for foreign 
RRPs. In the end, the foreign central bank swapped bills for RRPs, and the cash pool 
deposits for bills. Banks lost both deposits and reserves, and the Fed swapped reserves 
for RRPs, triggered by the secondary market sale of bills. The loop closes (see Figure 5). 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  6 
Figure 5: Swapping Reserves for Balances in the Foreign Repo Pool 
Step 1:
Reserves Reserves DepositsC DepositsC
T-Bills
Step 2:
Reserves Reserves DepositsC DepositsC
DepositsF T-Bills
T-Bills
DepositF
Step 3:
Reserves Reserves DepositsC DepositsC
RRPF DepositsF T-Bills
T-Bills
DepositF
RRPF
Notes: DepositsC = deposits of cash pools; DepositsF = deposits of foreign central banks; RRPF = the foreign RRP pool
Foreign CBs
Federal Reserve Banks Cash Pools
Foreign CBs
Federal Reserve Banks Cash Pools
Foreign CBs
Federal Reserve Banks Cash Pools
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
Alternatively, imagine that s ome portion of a foreign centr al bank's bill portfolio matures. 
When bills mature, the foreign central bank's holdings of bills go down and its holdings of 
cash balances (in a bank deposit) go up. But instead of the usual process of using cash in 
the bank to buy new bills at the next a uction, the foreign central bank decides to wire the 
funds over into the foreign RRP facility. At the end of the day all that has happened is that 
the foreign central bank had an asset swap (bills for RRPs); cash pools could take  down a 
bigger share of bi lls at auction than before as they did not have to bid against foreign 
central banks and spent cash from non -operating deposits to do so ; banks lost both 
deposits and reserves; and the Fed had a liability swap (reserves for RRPs). This example 
holds irrespective of whether bills finance increased Treasury cash balances or not. 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  7 
Since the beginning of 2015, foreign central banks have traded out of $120 billion of bills 
(and invested an equivalent amount in the foreign RRP facility) in two waves: $60 billion 
during the first half of 2015 and another $60 billion s ince the third quarter of 2015. F oreign 
central banks' pace of bill sales (and equivalently) RRP inflows appear to have accelerated 
since the December rate hike. But just as there is limited room (abo ut $150 billion) for 
Treasury to boost the bill supply in a way that drains reserves, there is limited room for 
foreign central banks to trade out of bills. According to the November TIC data  release, 
foreign central banks  held just north of $300 billion  in bills, meaning that the size of the 
foreign RRP facility can increase by only that much from here, not more. 
For our regular readers these examples of asset and liability swaps and the balance sheet 
relief they generate for banks should be familiar fro m our previous works (see for example 
here), where we described similar examples involving flows between banks and money 
funds using the o/n RRP facility. The dynamics here are the same as the dynamics  there: 
cash pools swap assets but not deposits for money fund shares, but rather deposits for 
bills; the Fed swaps liabilities but not reserves for o/n  RRPs but rather reserves for foreign 
RRPs or alternatively reserves for balances in the TGA ; and banks gain balance sheet 
relief in all three examples by losing some assets ( reserves) and liabilities (non-operating 
deposits) in equal amounts. Three variations on the same theme (see Figures 6, 7 and 8). 
Pricing Foreign RRPs 
Many clients have contacted the Fed to ask about the foreign RRP facility, and the 
standard response they got was that "it is just a service offering for foreign central banks." 
But in our view it is more, far more than "just" a service offering. It is a policy tool that the 
Fed has been using to exert an upward pressure on bill yields and to facilitate the rotation 
of cash pools out of non -operating deposits and into the bill market. At a trend takeup of 
$220 billion (and rising), the foreign RRP facility is already a more prominent policy tool 
than the o/n RRP for money funds with a trend takeup of a mere $80 billion (and falling). 
The pricing of the foreign RRP facility is a key piece of the puzzle. 
Figure 9 shows three repo rates (all o/n and against Treasury collateral). The thick blue  
line shows the o/n RRP rate, the rate the Fed pays money funds. The thin orange line 
shows the tri -party repo rate, the rate that primary dealers pa y money market funds. The 
thick red line shows the foreign RRP rate, the rate the Fed pays foreign central banks. 
The first two rates are readily published on a daily basis, but the rate on the foreign RRP 
facility takes a bit of detective work to find. The place to go to is the Fed's unaudited 
financial statements which get published for the first, second and third quarter of every 
year (see here) and whic h disclose the rate the Fed has been paying on foreign RRPs 
during the first three, six and nine months of the year on average. Interestingly the Fed's 
annual audited financial statements – which one would hope would be the window to the 
foreign RRP rate during the fourth quarter of the year – are silent on the pricing of the 
facility, which leaves us no choice but to interpolate (the red dashed lines) between 
existing data points (for 2014Q4) and along existing trends (for 2015Q4 and beyond). 
Two things stand out about the interest rate offered by the foreign RRP facility. 
First, during 2014, the foreign RRP rate was less than the o/n RRP rate and the tri -party 
repo rate. But in 2015 a regime shift occurred. The New York Fed started to pay a higher 
rate on  foreign RRPs than it paid on o/n RRPs and gradually moved it over the going 
market rate (the tri-party repo rate). According to the Fed's unaudited financial statements 
the foreign RRP rate was raised by 2 bps during each of the first three quarters of 20 15, 
and if we extrapolate this trend, the facility currently pays 35 bps, or 10 bps over the o/n 
RRP rate for money funds. That said, we won't know for a fact what the foreign RRP rate 
was during 2016Q1 until the next unaudited financial statements are published in April. 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  8 
Figure 6: The Financial System With a Small o/n RRP Facility 
Illustrative example (no scales) 
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Federal Reserve Banks Money Funds
Bonds Reserves RRPs Deposits $1 NAV shares
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
Figure 7: The Financial System with a Big o/n RRP Facility 
Illustrative example (no scales) 
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Federal Reserve Banks Money Funds
Bonds Reserves RRPs Deposits $1 NAV shares
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  9 
Figure 8: Alternatives to a Big o/n RRP Facility 
Illustrative example (no scales) 
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Federal Reserve Banks Central banks, U.S. Treasury and MMFs
Bonds Reserves RRPs (w/ MMFs) Reserves (TGA) RRPs (w/ FCBs)
Deposits $1 NAV shares U.S. Treasury bills ↑in the effective bill supply
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
Second, the New York Fed appears to be pricing the foreign RRP facility opportunistically, 
with an aim of luring foreign central banks out of certain segments of the bill market (see 
Figure 10). During 2014 the foreign RRP rate was only marginally above one -month and 
three-month Treasury bill yields and it never went above six-month Treasury bill yields. 
But starting in 2015, the foreign RRP rate was raised meaningfully above one - and three- 
month bill yields and for the bulk of the first half of 2015 the rate was even higher than six -
month bill yield s – this generous pricing (a meaningfully better yield on an o/n instrument 
than a one -, three - or even six -month instruments) explains why foreign central banks 
traded $60 billion in bills for foreign RRPs during the first half of 2015. 
During the second  half of 2015 (including the weeks after the December hike) the New 
York Fed's strategy seems to have remained broadly the same: it continued to price the 
foreign RRP facility in a way that would encourage foreign central banks to trade out of 
one- to three-month bills so that (1) there are more bills available for cash pools to buy as 
they trade out of non -operating deposits and for money funds to buy as they voluntarily 
convert prime funds into government -only funds and (2) to ensure that all of the extra bill 
issuance that came from funding the Treasury's increased TGA balances also go es 
exclusively to cash pools and to money funds, and not to foreign central banks. 
Looking at bill yields since the December hike, no one expected one - or three -month 
yields to be so close to the o/n RRP rate. The fact that their beta has been so high despite 
the fact that the conversion of $200 billion in money funds  and $300 billion in deposit 
outflows increased private demand for bills by $500 billion during the seco nd half of 2015 
can only be attributed to the coordinated efforts of the Treasury and the New York Fed. 
But despite this very successful experiment, the New York Fed has some explaining to do. 
 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  10 
Figure 9: A Pretty Good Deal 
% 
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
14 15 16
o/n RRP (Fed w/ MMFs) o/n RRP (Fed w/ central banks [hard data]) o/n RRP (Fed w/ central banks [assumed]) o/n Tri-party (dealers w/ MMFs)
 
Source: Federal Reserve, Bank of New York, Credit Suisse 
Figure 10: Please Leave the Bill Market Behind 
% 
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
14 15 16
o/n RRP (Fed w/ MMFs) o/n RRP (Fed w/ central banks [hard data]) o/n RRP (Fed w/ central banks [assumed])
US Generic Govt 1 Month Yield US Generic Govt 3 Month Yield US Generic Govt 6 Month Yield
 
Source: Federal Reserve, U.S. Treasury, Credit Suisse 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  11 
First, for a facility that appears to be more meani ngful than the o/n RRP facility (both in 
terms of the amount of reserves it helped drain and the impact it has on short -term interest 
rates), it is a touch bit odd  to us that the foreign RRP facility has never been mentioned in 
FOMC minutes before. That flies in the face of central bank transparency. 
Second, given that the foreign RRP rate has such a great influence on bill yields and is an 
effective tool to manage the supply of bills available for cash pools, its pricing should be 
more transparent and available at a higher frequency. Discuss. 
No Pact With the Devil 
Compared to o/n RRPs for money market funds, i ncreased bill issuance by the Treasury 
and the use of the foreign RRP facility to free up the amount of bills available for private 
cash pools is a more democratic way of sorting out the question of who should benefit as 
banks are pushing buy-side non-operating deposits off their balance sheets. 
The old script was government-only money funds with the use of the o/n RRP facility. Here 
the buy-side would not have much choice as to how to invest cash in the “new normal.” 
The new script is more Treasury  bills with the help of a structural increase in the cash 
balances of the Treasury and incentivizing foreign central banks to leave the bill market. 
Here, the buy-side has a choice: if you want to be passive in managing your cash portfolio 
go for a money fund where the money fund will have the option to cho ose between bills 
and o/n RRPs and will take a fee for this. If you want to run your cash portfolio yo urself, 
then be our guest, you can do that too. Run your bill portfolio directly and save the fees. 
Based on our conversations with buy -side investors (those who were already incentivized 
out of non -operating deposits by their banks or who are presen tly considering where to 
move), an overwhelming majority prefer the ability to run a bill portfolio directly, on their own. 
In the end, the Fed’s long -standing aversion to money funds (whether prime or 
government-only) seems to have dominated the FOMC’s thinking. 
Policy innovations (much like the idea of segregated cash accounts, see here) ended up 
reducing the potential role for money funds as middle-men. 
To be sure the sun still rises in the morning and the Earth still revolves on its axis under 
this alternative configuration, but as always some groups win (cash pools through more 
bills, higher yields), and some groups lose (money funds through forgone AuM and fees).  
In the very end cash pools did end up getting their Treasury bill “fix” (see Pozsar, 2011). 
But don't write off the o/n RRP facility just yet. As we have discussed above, there remains 
only limited room for the U.S. Treasury to boost its cash balances (about $150 billion 
more) and for foreign central banks to trade out of bills and into foreign RRPs (about $300 
billion more). The point is that both of these options are finite a nd when they reach their 
limits (keep in mind that we have yet to see prime to government -only money fund flows in 
the run-up to the October 2016 floating NAV deadline) the o/n RRP facility – and on the 
flipside, government-only money funds – may well become the only game in town. 
Forced HQLA Portfolio Rebalancing? 
For bank equity investors and fixed income investors with an eye on whether the outflow of 
non-operating deposits will force banks to re balance HQLA portfolios, the new news from 
this analysis is that we are far deeper into the process of deposit outflows ($300 billion and 
accelerating) than what the smaller -than-expected take up in the o/n RRP facility would 
have us believe (looking at o/n RRPs, one would assume deposit flows are not happening). 
 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  12 
The $100 billion in non -operating deposits that have flown out of banks other than 
JPMorgan since the December rate hike are big enough to force some big banks to re -
balance between Level 2 and Level 1 assets in their HQLA portfolio in order to remain  
compliant with the letter and spirit of the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR; see pp 17-18 here). 
Some banks can only lose $30 billion in deposits before their Level 2 limits are breached – 
and $100 billion in deposit outflows since December mean this this scenario is now live. 
Indeed, some of these re balancing flows may already be happening: according  to the 
Fed’s weekly H.8 release since the December rate hike, large banks have sold $10 billion 
in agency mortgages (Level 2 assets) and bought $13 billion in Treasuries (Level 1 assets). 
These flows bear close watching and have obvious implications for t he bid for Treasuries 
and the agency mortgage basis (and mortgage REITs as derivatives of the MBS basis). 
Furthermore, it is one thing if  these rebalancing flows are driven by the gradual outflow of 
non-operating deposits – the resulting rebalancing flows may occur gradually, over time. 
But it is a completely different matter if these trades are forced by the Fed on compliance 
grounds and in portfolios where deposit outflows have not triggered them yet! 
To appreciate this scenario, consider the followi ng chart from the September issue  of the 
BIS’s Basel III Monitoring Report (see Figure 11). According to the BIS, the largest banks 
across the globe have built their HQLA portfolios by allocating abou t 35% to central bank 
reserves, 50% to sovereign debt (Level 1 assets) and only 15% to Level 2 assets. 
Figure 11: The Model HQLA Portfolio 
 
Source: Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
Compared to this global benchm ark, the largest U.S. depository institutions stack up as 
follows (see Figure 12). JPMorgan is smack in line with the global Level 2 allocation  
average and is way overweight in reserves at the central bank – a remarkably 
conservative HQLA posture. But three banks – Wells Fargo, BoNY and Bank of America – 
seem well above the global average as far as their Level 2 allocation is concerned. 
Up to now, the Fed has been concerned with ensuring that all major banks are compliant 
with the LCR, and in fact over-compliant (about 115%) with the Basel III minimum of 100%. 
But the next stage of compliance with the letter and spirit of the LCR will move beyond the 
need for “all children to be above average” and focus on enforcing “uniform diets” – that is 
for all HQLA portfolios to have a similar mix of reserves, Treasuries and agency MBS. 
Again, whether the re balancing flows we have been seeing since the Fed hike have been 
triggered by the outflow on non -operating deposits or regulatory pressure to comply with 
global HQLA benchmarks we do not yet know. But if it is the latter, flows out of agency  
mortgages could be substantial: $100 billion in sales at best and $175 billion at worst, with 
an equivalent amount of bids for U.S. Treasury securities (see Figure 13). 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  13 
Figure 12: Cups of Water, Ice-Water and Ice Cubes 
% 
15%
5%
25% 30%
38%
20%
15%
76%
67%
53%
43%
28%
23%
36%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
JPM SST WF BNY BoA Citi Global benchmark
MBS (F) - Level 2 HQLA (at liquidity value, i.e. with a 15% haircut) MBS (G) U.S. Treasuries Reserves
 
Source: Call Reports (FDIC), Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Credit Suisse 
Figure 13: Not What the Consensus Expects 
$ billions 
-600
-500
-400
-300
-200
-100
0
100
200
300
400
08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
MBS (F) U.S. Treasuries
MBS (F) [if only BoA has to re-balance] U.S. Treasuries [if only BoA has to re-balance]
MBS (F) [if everyone has to re-balance] U.S. Treasuries [if everyone has to re-balance]
If JPM decides to add duration
 
Source: Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  14 
And the bid for Treasuries could be even stronger still, if one considers the fact that 
JPMorgan is now done optimizing its deposit mix and has twice as big a share of its HQLA 
portfolio allocated to reserves at the Fed than the global average – in the words of CFO 
Marianne Lake, the bank has been leaving money on the table through its conservative 
HQLA posture. Were JPM to trim its reserve balances down to the global average and buy 
Treasuries, bids could swell to as much as $350 billion this year (the red line in Figure 13). 
These calls are wildly out of consensus , which is for banks to buy, not sell $100 in MBS 
over the course of  2016. But in a world where no  one expected a full allotment o/n RRP 
facility but we g ot one, where everyone expected the take -up of the RRP facility to soar 
after liftoff but did not, where as recently as December the market expected two rate hikes 
this year but no more hikes as of today, one must never cease to “invert, always invert”… 
07 February 2016 
Global Money Notes #4  15 
References: 
Pozsar, Zoltan, “The Rise and Fall of the Shadow Banking System,” Moody’s Economy.com 
(July, 2008) 
Wilmot, Jonathan, Sweeney, James, Klein, Matthias and Lantz, Carl, “Long Shadows,” 
Credit Suisse (May, 2009) 
Pozsar, Zoltan, Adrian, Tobias, Ashcraft Adam and Boesky, Hayley, “Shadow Banking,” 
FRBNY (July, 2010)  
Pozsar, Zoltan “Institutional Cash Pools and the Triffin Dilemma of the US Banking 
System,” IMF (August, 2011) 
Sweeney, James and Wilmot, Jonathan, “When Collateral Is King,” Credit Suisse  
(March, 2012) 
Mehrling, Perry, Pozsar, Zoltan, Sweeney, James and Neilson, Dan “Bagehot Was a 
Shadow Banker,” INET (November, 2013) 
Sweeney, James, “Liquidity Required: Reshaping the Financial System,” Credit Suisse 
(November, 2013) 
Pozsar, Zoltan, “Shadow Banking: The Money View”, US Treasury (July, 2014) 
Pozsar, Zoltan, “How the Financial System Works: An Atlas of Money Flows in the Global 
Financial Ecosystem,” US Treasury (July, 2014) 
Pozsar, Zoltan, “A Macro View of Shadow Banking,” INET Working Paper (January, 2015) 
Di Iasio, Giovanni, and Pozsar, Zoltan, “ A Model of Shadow Banking: Crises, Cent ral 
Banks and Regulation” Banca d’Italia (May, 2015) 
Pozsar, Zoltan and Sweeney, James, “ Global Money Notes #1: The Money Market Under 
Government Control,” Credit Suisse (May, 2015) 
Pozsar, Zoltan and Sweeney, James, “ Global Money Notes #2: A  Turbulent Exit ,”  
Credit Suisse (August, 2015) 
Pozsar, Zoltan and Sweeney, James, “ Global Money Notes #3: Flying Blind ,”  
Credit Suisse (December, 2015) 
 
 
 
 
GLOBAL FIXED INCOME AND ECONOMIC RESEARCH 
Ric Deverell 
Global Head of Fixed Income and Economic Research 
+1 212 538 8964 
ric.deverell@credit-suisse.com 
 
GLOBAL ECONOMICS AND STRATEGY 
James Sweeney, Chief Economist 
Co-Head of Global Economics and Strategy 
+1 212 538 4648 
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com 
Neville Hill 
Co-Head of Global Economics and Strategy 
+44 20 7888 1334 
neville.hill@credit-suisse.com 
GLOBAL STRATEGY AND ECONOMICS 
Axel Lang 
+1 212 538 4530 
axel.lang@credit-suisse.com 
Jeremy Schwartz 
+1 212 538 6419  
jeremy.schwartz@credit-suisse.com 
Sarah Smith 
+1 212 325-1022 
sarah.smith@credit-suisse.com 
Wenzhe Zhao 
+1 212 325 1798  
wenzhe.zhao@credit-suisse.com 
   
US ECONOMICS 
James Sweeney 
Head of US Economics 
+1 212 538 4648 
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com 
Xiao Cui 
+1 212 538 2511 
xiao.cui@credit-suisse.com 
Zoltan Pozsar 
+1 212 538 3779  
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
Dana Saporta 
+1 212 538 3163 
dana.saporta@credit-suisse.com 
   
LATIN AMERICA (LATAM) ECONOMICS 
Alonso Cervera 
Head of Latam Economics 
+52 55 5283 3845 
alonso.cervera@credit-suisse.com 
Mexico, Chile 
Casey Reckman 
+1 212 325 5570 
casey.reckman@credit-suisse.com 
Argentina, Venezuela 
Daniel Chodos 
+1 212 325 7708 
daniel.chodos@credit-suisse.com  
Latam Strategy 
Juan Lorenzo Maldonado 
+1 212 325 4245 
juanlorenzo.maldonado@credit-suisse.com  
Colombia, Ecuador, Peru 
Alberto J. Rojas 
+52 55 5283 8975 
alberto.rojas@credit-suisse.com 
   
BRAZIL ECONOMICS 
Nilson Teixeira 
Head of Brazil Economics 
+55 11 3701 6288 
nilson.teixeira@credit-suisse.com 
Iana Ferrao 
+55 11 3701 6345 
iana.ferrao@credit-suisse.com 
Leonardo Fonseca 
+55 11 3701 6348 
leonardo.fonseca@credit-suisse.com 
Paulo Coutinho 
+55 11 3701-6353 
paulo.coutinho@credit-suisse.com 
   
EUROPEAN ECONOMICS 
Neville Hill 
Head of European Economics 
+44 20 7888 1334 
neville.hill@credit-suisse.com 
Giovanni Zanni 
+44 20 7888 6827 
giovanni.zanni@credit-suisse.com 
Sonali Punhani 
+44 20 7883 4297 
sonali.punhani@credit-suisse.com 
Peter Foley 
+44 20 7883 4349 
peter.foley@credit-suisse.com 
   
EASTERN EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA (EEMEA) ECONOMICS 
Berna Bayazitoglu 
Head of EEMEA Economics 
+44 20 7883 3431 
berna.bayazitoglu@credit-suisse.com 
Turkey 
Nimrod Mevorach 
+44 20 7888 1257 
nimrod.mevorach@credit-suisse.com 
EEMEA Strategy, Israel 
Alexey Pogorelov 
+44 20 7883 0396 
alexey.pogorelov@credit-suisse.com 
Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan 
Mikhail Liluashvili 
+44 20 7888 7342 
mikhail.liluashvili@credit-suisse.com 
Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic 
Carlos Teixeira 
+27 11 012 8054 
carlos.teixeira@credit-suisse.com 
South Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa 
Chernay Johnson 
+27 11 012 8068 
chernay.johnson @credit-suisse.com 
Nigeria, Sub-Saharan Africa   
   
JAPAN ECONOMICS  NON-JAPAN ASIA (NJA) ECONOMICS 
Hiromichi Shirakawa 
Head of Japan Economics 
+81 3 4550 7117 
hiromichi.shirakawa@credit-suisse.com 
Takashi Shiono 
+81 3 4550 7189 
takashi.shiono@credit-suisse.com 
 
Dong Tao 
Head of NJA Economics 
+852 2101 7469 
dong.tao@credit-suisse.com  
China 
Dr. Santitarn Sathirathai 
+65 6212 5675 
santitarn.sathirathai@credit-suisse.com  
Regional, India, Indonesia, Thailand 
Christiaan Tuntono 
+852 2101 7409 
christiaan.tuntono@credit-suisse.com  
Hong Kong, Korea, Taiwan 
 Deepali Bhargava 
+65 6212 5699 
deepali.bhargava@credit-suisse.com  
India 
Michael Wan 
+65 6212 3418 
michael.wan@credit-suisse.com  
Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines 
Weishen Deng 
+852 2101 7162 
weishen.deng@credit-suisse.com 
China 
 
 
 
Disclosure Appendix 
Analyst Certification  
The analysts identified in this report each certify, with respect to the companies or securities that the individual analyzes, that (1) the views expressed in this report accurately reflect his or her personal views 
about all of the subject companies and securities and (2) no part of his or her compensation was, is or will be directly or indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this report.  
 
References in this report to Credit Suisse include all of the subsidiaries and affiliates of Credit Suisse operating under its investment banking division. For more information on our structure, please use the following link: 
https://www.credit-suisse.com/who-we-areThis report may contain material that is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, 
country or other jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation or which would subject Credit Suisse AG or its affiliates ("CS") to any registration or licensing 
requirement within such jurisdiction. All material presented in this report, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under copyright to CS. None of the material, nor its content, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, 
transmitted to, copied or distributed to any other party, without the prior express written permission of CS. All trademarks, service marks and logos used in this report are trademarks or service marks or registered trademarks 
or service marks of CS or its affiliates. The information, tools and material presented in this report are provided to you for information purposes only and are not to be used or considered as an offer or the solicitation of an 
offer to sell or to buy or subscribe for securities or other financial instruments. CS may not have taken any steps to ensure that the securities referred to in this report are suitable for any particular investor. CS will not treat 
recipients of this report as its customers by virtue of their receiving this report. The investments and services contained or referred to in this report may not be suitable for you and it is recommended that you consult an 
independent investment advisor if you are in doubt about such investments or investment services. Nothing in this report constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a representation that any investment or 
strategy is suitable or appropriate to your individual circumstances, or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation to you. CS does not advise on the tax consequences of investments and you are advised to contact 
an independent tax adviser. Please note in particular that the bases and levels of taxation may change. Information and opinions presented in this report have been obtained or derived from sources believed by CS to be 
reliable, but CS makes no representation as to their accuracy or completeness. CS accepts no liability for loss arising from the use of the material presented in this report, except that this exclusion of liability does not apply to 
the extent that such liability arises under specific statutes or regulations applicable to CS. This report is not to be relied upon in substitution for the exercise of independent judgment. CS may have issued, and may in the 
future issue, other communications that are inconsistent with, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in this report. Those communications reflect the different assumptions, views and analytical 
methods of the analysts who prepared them and CS is under no obligation to ensure that such other communications are brought to the attention of any recipient of this report. Some investments referred to in this report will 
be offered solely by a single entity and in the case of some investments solely by CS, or an associate of CS or CS may be the only market maker in such investments. Past performance should not be taken as an indication 
or guarantee of future performance, and no representation or warranty, express or implied, is made regarding future performance. Information, opinions and estimates contained in this report reflect a judgment at its original 
date of publication by CS and are subject to change without notice. The price, value of and income from any of the securities or financial instruments mentioned in this report can fall as well as rise. The value of securities and 
financial instruments is subject to exchange rate fluctuation that may have a positive or adverse effect on the price or income of such securities or financial instruments. Investors in securities such as ADR's, the values of 
which are influenced by currency volatility, effectively assume this risk. Structured securities are complex instruments, typically involve a high degree of risk and are intended for sale only to sophisticated investors who are 
capable of understanding and assuming the risks involved. The market value of any structured security may be affected by changes in economic, financial and political factors (including, but not limited to, spot and forward 
interest and exchange rates), time to maturity, market conditions and volatility, and the credit quality of any issuer or reference issuer. Any investor interested in purchasing a structured product should conduct their own 
investigation and analysis of the product and consult with their own professional advisers as to the risks involved in making such a purchase. Some investments discussed in this report may have a high level of volatility. High 
volatility investments may experience sudden and large falls in their value causing losses when that investment is realised. Those losses may equal your original investment. Indeed, in the case of some investments the 
potential losses may exceed the amount of initial investment and, in such circumstances, you may be required to pay more money to support those losses. Income yields from investments may fluctuate and, in 
consequence, initial capital paid to make the investment may be used as part of that income yield. Some investments may not be readily realisable and it may be difficult to sell or realise those investments, similarly it may 
prove difficult for you to obtain reliable information about the value, or risks, to which such an investment is exposed. This report may provide the addresses of, or contain hyperlinks to, websites. Except to the extent to which 
the report refers to website material of CS, CS has not reviewed any such site and takes no responsibility for the content contained therein. Such address or hyperlink (including addresses or hyperlinks to CS's own website 
material) is provided solely for your convenience and information and the content of any such website does not in any way form part of this document. Accessing such website or following such link through this report or CS's 
website shall be at your own risk. This report is issued and distributed in Europe (except Switzerland) by Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, One Cabot Square, London E14 4QJ, England, which is authorised by the 
Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. This report is issued and distributed in Europe (except Switzerland) by Credit Suisse International, 
One Cabot Square, London E14 4QJ, England, which is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. This report is being 
distributed in Germany by Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited Niederlassung Frankfurt am Main regulated by the Bundesanstalt fuer Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht ("BaFin"). This report is being distributed in the United 
States and Canada by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC; in Switzerland by Credit Suisse AG; in Brazil by Banco de Investimentos Credit Suisse (Brasil) S.A or its affiliates; in Mexico by Banco Credit Suisse (México), S.A. 
(transactions related to the securities mentioned in this report will only be effected in compliance with applicable regulation); in Japan by Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Limited, Financial Instruments Firm, Director-General 
of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Kinsho) No. 66, a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Financial Futures Association of Japan, Japan Investment Advisers Association, Type II Financial Instruments Firms 
Association; elsewhere in Asia/ Pacific by whichever of the following is the appropriately authorised entity in the relevant jurisdiction: Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited, Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited, Credit 
Suisse Securities (Thailand) Limited, regulated by the Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Thailand, having registered address at 990 Abdulrahim Place, 27th Floor, Unit 2701, Rama IV Road, Silom, 
Bangrak, Bangkok 10500, Thailand, Tel. +66 2614 6000, Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, Credit Suisse AG, Singapor e Branch, Credit Suisse Securities (India) Private Limited (CIN no. 
U67120MH1996PTC104392) regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India as Research Analyst (registration no. INH 000001030) and as Stock Broker (registration no. INB230970637; INF230970637; 
INB010970631; INF010970631), having registered address at 9th Floor, Ceejay House, Dr.A.B. Road, Worli, Mumbai - 18, India, T- +91-22 6777 3777, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, Seoul Branch, Credit 
Suisse AG, Taipei Securities Branch, PT Credit Suisse Securities Indonesia, Credit Suisse Securities (Philippines ) Inc., and elsewhere in the world by the relevant authorised affiliate of the above. Research on Taiwanese 
securities produced by Credit Suisse AG, Taipei Securities Branch has been prepared by a registered Senior Business Person. Research provided to residents of Malaysia is authorised by the Head of Research for Credit 
Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, to whom they should direct any queries on +603 2723 2020. This report has been prepared and issued for distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited investors and 
expert investors (each as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations) only, and is also distributed by Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch to overseas investors (as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations). 
By virtue of your status as an institutional investor, accredited investor, expert investor or overseas investor, Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch is exempted from complying with certain compliance requirements under the 
Financial Advisers Act, Chapter 110 of Singapore (the "FAA"), the Financial Advisers Regulations and the relevant Notices and Guidelines issued thereunder, in respect of any financial advisory service which Credit Suisse 
AG, Singapore branch may provide to you. This information is being distributed by Credit Suisse AG (DIFC Branch), duly licensed and regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (“DFSA”). Related financial services 
or products are only made available to Professional Clients or Market Counterparties, as defined by the DFSA, and are not intended for any other persons. Credit Suisse AG (DIFC Branch) is located on Level 9 East, The 
Gate Building, DIFC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. This research may not conform to Canadian disclosure requirements. In jurisdictions where CS is not already registered or licensed to trade in securities, transactions will 
only be effected in accordance with applicable securities legislation, which will vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may require that the trade be made in accordance with applicable exemptions from registration or 
licensing requirements. Non-U.S. customers wishing to effect a transaction should contact a CS entity in their local jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise. U.S. customers wishing to effect a transaction should 
do so only by contacting a representative at Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC in the U.S. Please note that this research was originally prepared and issued by CS for distribution to their market professional and institutional 
investor customers. Recipients who are not market professional or institutional investor customers of CS should seek the advice of their independent financial advisor prior to taking any investment decision based on this 
report or for any necessary explanation of its contents. This research may relate to investments or services of a person outside of the UK or to other matters which are not authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority 
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority or in respect of which the protections of the Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct Authority for private customers 
and/or the UK compensation scheme may not be available, and further details as to where this may be the case are available upon request in respect of this report. CS may provide various services to US municipal entities 
or obligated persons ("municipalities"), including suggesting individual transactions or trades and entering into such transactions. Any services CS provides to municipalities are not viewed as "advice" within the meaning of 
Section 975 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. CS is providing any such services and related information solely on an arm's length basis and not as an advisor or fiduciary to the 
municipality. In connection with the provision of the any such services, there is no agreement, direct or indirect, between any municipality (including the officials, management, employees or agents thereof) and CS for CS to 
provide advice to the municipality. Municipalities should consult with their financial, accounting and legal advisors regarding any such services provided by CS. In addition, CS is not acting for direct or indirect compensation 
to solicit the municipality on behalf of an unaffiliated broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, or investment adviser for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement by the municipality for or in 
connection with Municipal Financial Products, the issuance of municipal securities, or of an investment adviser to provide investment advisory services to or on behalf of the municipality. If this report is being distributed by a 
financial institution other than Credit Suisse AG, or its affiliates, that financial institution is solely responsible for distribution. Clients of that institution should contact that institution to effect a transaction in the securities 
mentioned in this report or require further information. This report does not constitute investment advice by Credit Suisse to the clients of the distributing financial institution, and neither Credit Suisse AG, its affiliates, and their 
respective officers, directors and employees accept any liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from their use of this report or its content. Principal is not guaranteed. Commission is the commission 
rate or the amount agreed with a customer when setting up an account or at any time after that. 
Copyright © 2016 CREDIT SUISSE AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
Investment principal on bonds can be eroded depending on sale price or market price. In addition, there are bonds on which investment principa l 
can be eroded due to changes in redemption amounts. Care is required when investing in such instruments.  
When you purchase non-listed Japanese fixed income securities (Japanese government bonds, Japanese municipal bonds, Japanese government guaranteed bonds, Japanese corporate bonds) from CS as a seller, you 
will be requested to pay the purchase price only.  