 
 
Credit Suisse Economics  
 
Global Money Notes #13 
Beyond the Outer Rim  
 
Every segment of the global dollar funding market is in flux. 
Repo has switched from trading well within the Fed’s overnight IOR -RRP band 
to trading outside the band. Bill supply is the primary culprit for stressed o/n 
rates and as bill issuance moderates, repo should move back within the band.  
Libor continues to trade at a wide spread to OIS which is mostly driven by 
repatriation. Corporate treasurers have not sold a lot of bank debt to date, but 
they made it clear to banks that they will no longer buy 1-3 year debt. 
Banks basically  lost their only dedicated buyer of 1 -3 year debt, which 
prompted them to pre -fund and, as a result, over -fund their balance sheets. 
The aim of pre -funding was to preserve LCR and NSFR ratios through what 
was expected to be a difficult and uncertain fundin g environment  in 2018 . 
Banks pre-funded by issuing mostly at three -month and five-year maturities in 
unsecured dollar funding markets. They also shifted some issuance to euros. 
Banks soon realized that funding at the three -month point is extremely illiquid . 
As they tried to replace 1-3 year debt partly with three -month debt, they 
learned that on the margin, corporate treasurers invest mostly in repos and bills 
for liquidity and only a little bit in CD  and CP for yield. That’s because the 
mandates of corporate treasurers have changed on January 1 st: they now 
manage to a master that may need immediate liquidity for M&As and buybacks 
and so their new job is to build a money fund portfolio with the cash from bond 
sales and maturiti es. There are no other marginal buyers of CD  and CP:   
prime funds are unable to attract inflows , and offshore money funds afraid of 
repatriation-related outflows have pared back their investments in CD and CP. 
Crossover buyers are now buyers of 1 -3 year d ebt in the secondary market, 
and banks are testing the depth of the new buyer base. If the new buyers’ 
interest at current yields is deep, the 1 -3 year bank funding market will settle 
and pressures on three -month CD and CP, and hence Libor-OIS, may abate. 
But there are many ifs around that: a stock selloff c ould trigger more sales of 
bank debt as treasurers raise funds for buybacks and Libor could widen again. 
Cross-currency bases continue to trade tight for a variety of reasons: lower 
hedging needs on the demand side and repatriation, BEAT  and weak equities 
on the supply side. This issue of Global Money Notes explains the link between 
equity futures and FX swaps and why cross-currency bases may turn positive...     
THIS IS NOT RESEARCH. PLEASE REFER TO THE IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES 
AND CONTACT YOUR CREDIT SUISSE REPRESENTATIVE FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
13 April 2018 
Investment Solutions & Products 
Global 
 
Important Information  
This report represents the views of the Investment Strategy Department of Credit Suisse and has not been prepared in 
accordance with the legal requirements designed to promote the independence of investment research. It is not a product of 
the Credit Suiss e Research Department and the view of the Investment Strategy Department may differ materially from the 
views of the Credit Suisse Research Department and other divisions at Credit Suisse, even if it references published research  
recommendations. Credit Su isse has a number of policies in place to promote the independence of Credit Suisse ’s Research 
Departments from Credit Suisse ’s Investment Strategy and other departments and to manage conflicts of interest, including 
policies relating to dealing ahead of t he dissemination of investment research. These policies do not apply to the views of 
Investment Strategists contained in this report.  
 
CONTRIBUTORS 
Zoltan Pozsar 
212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
  
 
 
13 April 2018  
Global Money Notes #13 2 
13 April 2018  
In previous issues of Global Money Notes we’ve referred to FX swaps as the outer rim of 
funding markets. Money is hierarchical, and in the hierarchy of funding markets FX swaps 
trade at a premium to other market segments: OIS is at the bottom of the hierarchy , 
secured repo trades at a spread to OIS, unsecured Libor trades at a wider spread to OIS, 
and FX swaps typically trade at a spread to Libor. In recent years, the most lucrative 
money dealing activity was to raise dollars at lower levels of the hierarchy and lend them 
via FX swaps at the outer rim. The typical borrower of dollars was a real money manager 
from a negative rate jurisdiction looking to buy dollar assets – bonds – on a hedged basis. 
But the buck does not stop at the outer rim…. 
Equity futures are another  important segment of the global dollar funding market. Many 
banks look at equity futures as a product similar to FX swaps and dynamically shift capital 
between the two products depending on which trades at a more lucrative spread to Libor. 
Exhibit 1 shows  the implied yield on three -month $/¥ swaps and S&P futures in 2017. 
Like the FX swap implied cost of dollar funding from yen, the implied yield on S&P futures 
trades at a spread over Libor. We call the spread between FX swap implied rates and Libor 
the cross-currency basis. We can think of the spread between equity futures implied rates 
and Libor as the equity futures basis. Exhibit 2 shows these rates in basis form over Libor. 
As in repo and FX swaps, most trades in equity futures flow through matched books. In a 
typical matched book transaction, a customer pays a dealer Libor plus a spread to go long 
equities, and another customer receives from the dealer Libor plus a spread to go short 
equities. The dealer makes a bid -ask spread on bo th the funding as well as  the total 
return leg of the transaction, similar to a matched repo or matched FX swap book. 
But m arkets seldom clear through matched books , and imbalances in order flows are 
always absorbed by dealers’ speculative books – or, in a post-Basel III financial order, 
banks’ treasury functions. For example, in recent years, the bid for dollars via FX swaps 
exceeded the lending of dollars via FX swaps. This widened the cross-currency basis, 
which banks’ treasury functions harvested by funding in unsecured and secured markets 
and lending the proceeds in the FX swap market (see Exhibit 3 and the Appendix here).  
Similarly, in recent years, the market’s appetite to go long equities consistently exceeded 
the appetite to go short equities. This imbalance gave rise to the equity futures basis. 
Banks harvested this basis  by going short futures when clients wanted to go long , and 
offsetting the shorts by funding a long position in underlying cash equities (see Exhibit 4). 
Thus, bridging imbalances in order flows always requires some funding on the margin:           
to raise dollars to lend at the outer rim  in the case of FX swap s, and to raise dollars         
to buy cash equities to offset shorts in the case of equity futures beyond the outer rim. 
In practice, the funding to go long cash equities is not raised real time. Banks ideally don’t 
scramble for funding just when they need it. They pre-fund the equity futures desk’s 
funding needs, similar to how they would pre-fund the FX swap desk ’s funding needs if 
the desk anticipated cross-currency bases to widen and asked for funding to harvest it. 
Now that the equity market has wobbled, fewer clients want to go long equities via futures. 
All of a sudden, equity futures desks are overfunded: the cash banks raised to fund the 
purchase of cash equities to offset anticipated shorts via futures is no longer needed  
(see Exhibit 5). Worse, as clients started to pare their equity longs, to maintain a flat 
exposure, banks had to sell cash equities from their inventory. The funding that financed 
equity longs remains in place, but i nstead of equities , banks now hold cash – yet    
another source of overfunding which banks need to find an outlet for (see Exhibit 6). 
 
 
 
13 April 2018  
Global Money Notes #13 3 
13 April 2018  
Culturally, some banks’ funding, repo, FX swap and equity fut ures desks are close -knit 
and sit side by side . When one te am ends up overfunded, other teams get to deploy 
excess cash at more lucrative spreads in other  markets. At most banks, however, these 
desks are siloed and some banks intend not to run speculative positions and enforce that 
by incentivizing market makers to run matched books through high internal funding costs. 
Exhibit 7 zooms in on implied yields in S&P futures since the turn of the year. 
The collapse in implied yields si nce March was driven by the turn in equity market s. 
Clients’ desire to go long equities diminished and long positions via futures were trimmed. 
Implied yields collapsed and equity futures desks became overfunded for two reasons: 
first, because funding raised to offset budgeted shorts in equity futures were not needed; 
second, because reduced client longs forced banks to sell stocks and end up with cash.  
The very day implied yields in equity futures started to collapse and crashed below Libor, 
cross-currency bases started to aggressively tighten too: the more nimble treasury teams 
took money from equity futures desk s and gave it to FX swap desk s. When you are 
suddenly overfunded and bases move against you, your aim is not to maximize profits but 
to minimize your losses. You go from playing offense to defense. If equity futures trade at 
a negative carry you move funding to areas that still have a positive carry, however small. 
An important takeaway from this analysis is that equity market sentiment can have a 
major impact on funding markets. When equity markets fall and client in terest to go long 
equity futures wanes, banks ’ equity futures desks get overfunded on the margin , which 
spills over into FX swap markets. Note that since the global adoption of Basel III in 2015, 
this is the first major turn in equity markets and we are witnessing the first major example 
of how an equity selloff impacts basis markets in a financial system subject to Basel III.  
For now, the rule to keep in mind is this: if stocks fall, the cross -currency basis tightens. 
On the flipside, if stocks rise, futures desks tend to chase funding as the value of equities 
on their balance sheet rises. This tends to push Libor to trade at a wider spread to OIS. 
To be crystal clear, we are not saying that this has anything to do with the widening of 
Libor-OIS this year, but it could certainly have been a factor behind the Libor -OIS move 
last December , when certain Canadian banks with large equity futures desks were 
understood to be aggressive bidders for unsecured funds via term fed funds, CD and CP. 
Clearly, Libor-OIS and cross-currency bases can move for reasons other than repatriation 
and sterilization. The wider you cast your radar to understand every possible factor that 
could be driving your markets, the less likely you’ll be hit out of left field next time around. 
We now have three supply-side explanations for the odd behavior of cross-currency bases 
since February, at a time when Libor-OIS is wider and most funding markets are tighter. 
First, due to repatriation, foreign banks lost their dedicated buyer of 1 -3 year debt, which 
prompted them to pre -fund and, as a result, over -fund their balance she ets. The aim of 
pre-funding was to preserve LCR and NSFR ratios through what was expected to be a 
difficult and uncertain funding environment. Banks always fund LCR and  NSFR ratios 
unsecured, and excess cash raised unsecured can only b e lent profitably via  FX swaps    
– you can buy Treasuries too, but FX swaps are much better when the Fed is hiking. 
Second, due to the equity market selloff since March, equity futu res desks got 
overfunded and funding was shifted to FX swap desks to limit firm-wide negative carry. 
Third, due to BEAT, foreign banks are forced to trim their reliance on headquarters for 
funding, which can have an immediate impact on FX swap markets (more on this below) 
and, over time, it can also show up in foreign banks’ CP and CD issuance patterns. 
 
 
 
13 April 2018  
Global Money Notes #13 4 
13 April 2018  
On the demand-side things are changing too. 
Due to the widening of Libor -OIS this year, the carry on foreign buyers ’ hedged U.S. 
Treasury, MBS and IG credit portfol ios have declined by around 60 bps. Appetite to roll 
these hedged investments diminished, especially when other parts of the world offer 
better hedge-adjusted carry. In fact, we’ve seen Japan sell $50 billion in U.S. Treasuries 
during the first two months of 2018 and , anecdotally, we have heard about smaller 
Japanese banks starting to trim their corporate dollar lending books due to hedging costs. 
If the rest of the world’s demand for dollar assets decline s due to dollar hedging costs, 
cross-currency bases tighten. But we will only know the true extent to which reduced 
hedging needs have caused cross -currency bases to trade tighter  this year  when the 
temporary glut of dollars due to overfunding related to repatriation (defensive overfunding), 
the equity rut (unforeseen overfunding) and BEAT (opportunistic overfunding) fade away. 
When will overfunding fade? 
It is hard to say, but given that foreign banks’ defensive overfunding was done through a 
barbelled issuance  strategy where they issued sub -1-year (mostly three-month) and 
longer-than-3-year paper, a significant chunk of overfunding should mature by June.  
Regarding unforeseen overfunding, it depends on what stocks do. If equities rally,      
then equity futures are back in vogue and equity futures desks will get their funding back. 
But, on the other hand, if the equity rut continues, equity futures desks will continue to 
struggle and FX swap desks will be given even more funds to reduce negative carry… 
Now a word on BEAT. 
We did not claim that BEAT has been the primary driver of the Libor-OIS move this year. 
In our conference call  on March 15 th we attributed the Libor -OIS move mostly to  
repatriation and part ly to bill supply. We brought BEAT into the fold in an attempt to 
rationalize why cross-currency bases have been narrowing since February in an environment 
where all other funding markets – except equity futures – have been trading much tighter. 
In our last piece we laid out three ways in which a foreign bank optimizing for BEAT could 
change its funding strategy. In all three examples, increased CD and CP issuance was 
featured as a source of excess dollars as foreign banks replace inter-affiliate funding with 
third party funding. In all three examples, FX swaps were the outlet for excess dollars. 
We did not include as an example the simplest and most low ha nging fruit on the BEAT 
optimization ladder. Namely, most foreign banks that receive funding from headquarters 
deposit those funds at the Fed – i.e. interoffice funding is a reflection of global banks’ 
HQLA portfolio construction. If a bank has excess in i ts dollar HQLA portfolio it can call 
back some of the funding it downstreamed to New York and reduce deposits at the Fed. 
If keeping excess HQLA costs 15 bps more because of BEAT, you can reduce the hit by 
lending your reserves anywhere in the world and to  anyone but your New York affiliate. 
Here too, excess dollars are lent via FX swaps, but this won’t show up in CD and CP data. 
In fact, foreign banks’ cash balances at the Fed are down by around $60 billion this year, 
and their balance sheets have shrunk by a similar amount. There is no evidence that 
foreign banks increased their holdings of U.S. Treasury bills or repos since January .       
In fact they reduced their investments in both. Thus, reserves did not decline because 
foreign banks took down bills at auctions or because they lent in  stressed repo markets. 
The decline in reserves is certainly not because branches are upstreaming dollars to 
headquarters to harvest deeply negative cross -currency bases in the FX swap market – 
cross-currency bases are ex traordinarily tight . When cross-currency bases are tight, 
branches lend less to headquarters, and so rising values for “net due to head office ”       
in the H.8 report likely reflect reduced “due from” and not increased “due to” head office. 
 
 
13 April 2018  
Global Money Notes #13 5 
13 April 2018  
The decline in  foreign banks’ balance sheets in New York since January, is consistent 
with the idea that excess cash at the Fed may have been be subject to a recall by  
headquarters and that it’s being lent elsewhere in the world through the FX swap market. 
Beat that… 
Our point was that BEAT could be contributing to tighter cross -currency bases now and 
could widen Libor-OIS in the future as some banks optimize funding for their affiliates. 
Interpreting market moves real time is hard, especially if moves come out of left field.  
There are no data and there will be no data to prove that BEAT contributed to tighter  
cross-currency bases intra-quarter as foreign banks called back excess dollars at the Fed.  
Foreign banks most exposed to BEAT are filing their call reports as we speak and we ’ll 
soon see how funding relationship with headquarters changed since tax reform went live. 
But call reports are quarter-end snapshots: they are useful, but are not a definitive guide. 
There is also no data to track the funding needs associated with equity futures desks,    
so we are left with trying to rationalize what we see on the screens through triangulation. 
Collecting color is a big part of the game. Market anthropology is also a part of the game: 
what kind of markets are specific banks active in; do different desks talk to yours truly 
together, or do they take meetings as separate teams; is the head of fu nding present in 
these meetings – these are all important cues when trying to synthetize the market color 
with the team dynamics you see in meetings and the prices you see on your screens. 
Soft intelligence is no replacement for hard data, but sometimes there ain’t no data… 
What you gained from this issue of Global Money Notes is a framework to think about 
how equity market sentiment can impact cross -currency bases pieced together from 
meetings and conversations with bank treasury teams during the first quarter, and a 
broader perspective to think about markets when too many moving parts jam the signal. 
In fielding over 200 calls and meetings with clients since the beginning of the year,    
there was only one client who inquired about equity futures and asked how equity market 
dynamics can influence funding markets and especially the cross -currency basis. That 
suggests that most basis traders do not pay attention to equity futures, but they should! 
Cross-currency bases between the dollar and other major currencies may be at risk of 
turning positive later this year. If the Fed keeps hiking and repatriation keeps Libor -OIS 
wide, the rest of the world’s appetite to buy dollar assets on a hedged basis will diminish . 
If hedging needs diminish, the cross -currency basis tightens. Less interest in Treasuries, 
MBS and IG credit from the rest of the world means wider spreads and higher yields, 
which in turn are not constructive for equity market sentiment. Equity market sentiment in 
turn can cause wild swings in implied yields in equity futures, and as we’ve seen this year, 
these swings can spill over into FX swap markets – potential weakness in equity markets 
also points to tighter cross -currency bases. In a macro sense, tighter bases to Libor 
means less interest from the rest of the world to go long U.S. duration and risk assets: 
tighter cross -currency bases means less interest in U.S. duration and credit risk and 
tighter equity futures bases means less interest in U.S. e quity risk. In recent years 
demand for risk was rising. The name of the game was to figure out how the system will 
source funding for carry traders – life insurers in Japan equity investors in the U.S., etc. 
But the game is now changing. Less demand for du ration and credit risk from overseas 
and less bullish equity market sentiment leav e FX and equity futures desks overfunded. 
Risks are not that bases widen but that a funding dump will push them positive to Libor… 
  
 
 
13 April 2018  
Global Money Notes #13 6 
13 April 2018  
Figure 1: Beyond the Outer Rim (1) 
three-month, percent 
 
Source: the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service, Credit Suisse 
 
Figure 2: Beyond the Outer Rim (2) 
three-month, basis points 
 
Source: the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service, Credit Suisse 
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
2.00
2.25
2.50
2.75
3.00
3.25
Jan-17 Apr-17 Jul-17 Oct-17 Jan-18 Apr-18
U.S. dollar Libor FX swap implied cost of dollar funding from yen Implied yield in S&P500 futures
(100)
(80)
(60)
(40)
(20)
0
20
40
60
Jan-17 Apr-17 Jul-17 Oct-17 Jan-18 Apr-18
$/¥cross-currency basis S&P500 futures basis
 
 
13 April 2018  
Global Money Notes #13 7 
13 April 2018  
Figure 3: Harvesting the Cross-Currency Basis 
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
 
Figure 4: Harvesting the Equity Futures Basis 
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
 
Figure 5: Unused Funding 
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
 
FXS FXS FXS FXS
[50] [50] [50] [50]
FXS FXS CD
[50] [50] [50]
Lend¥ Borrow$ Lend$ Borrow$ Lend$ Borrow¥
$ [50] Lend¥ Borrow¥ ¥
UST Borrow$ Lend$ CD JGB
[100] [50] ¥ Borrow¥ [50]
Real Money G-SIB Real Money
>
dealer flow dealer flow
bank flow
Real Money G-SIB Real Money
(synthetic JGBs) (synthetic USTs)
dealer flow dealer flow
bank flow
>
S&PF Borrowi Lendi Borrowi Lendi S&P500F
[100] [50] S&PF S&PF [50] [50]
Borrowi Lendi CD
[50] S&PC S&PF
(long) (long) (short) (short)
bank flow
>
Real Money G-SIB Real Money
dealer flow dealer flow
(synthetic S&P long) (synthetic S&P short)
S&PF = S&P futures   S&P C = cash equities   Borrowi = implied borrowing rate in S&PF   Lendi = implied lending rate
S&PF Borrowi Lendi Borrowi Lendi S&P500F
[100] [50] S&PF S&PF [50] [50]
Borrowi Lendi CD
[50] S&PC S&PF
$ CD
[50] [50]
(long) (long) (short) (short)
(synthetic S&P long) (synthetic S&P short)
S&PF = S&P futures   S&P C = cash equities   Borrowi = implied borrowing rate in S&PF   Lendi = implied lending rate
>
Real Money G-SIB Real Money
If unused, funding goes to 
another desk (FX sw aps).
dealer flow dealer flow
bank flow
 
 
13 April 2018  
Global Money Notes #13 8 
13 April 2018  
Figure 6: Ricochet Funding 
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
 
 
Figure 7: Collateral Damage 
basis points (LHS) and index (RHS) 
 
Source: the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service, Credit Suisse 
 
 
 
 
 
  
S&PF Borrowi Lendi Borrowi Lendi S&P500F
[100] [50] S&PF S&PF [50] [50]
Borrowi Lendi CD
[50] S&PC S&PF
S&PF Borrowi Lendi Borrowi Lendi S&P500F
[50] [50] S&PF S&PF [50] [50]
$ CD
[50] [50]
(long) (long) (short) (short)
>
Real Money G-SIB Real Money
dealer flow dealer flow
(synthetic S&P short)
S&PF = S&P futures   S&P C = cash equities   Borrowi = implied borrowing rate in S&PF   Lendi = implied lending rate
>
Real Money G-SIB Real Money
dealer flow dealer flow
Ricochet funding goes to 
other desks (FX sw aps).
bank flow
(synthetic S&P long)
2,100
2,200
2,300
2,400
2,500
2,600
2,700
2,800
2,900
(100)
(80)
(60)
(40)
(20)
0
20
40
60
Jan-17 Apr-17 Jul-17 Oct-17 Jan-18 Apr-18
$/¥cross-currency basis S&P500 futures basis S&P500 (RHS)
 
 
13 April 2018  
Global Money Notes #13 9 
13 April 2018  
Additional Important Information  
This material has been prepared by the Investment Strategy Department personnel of Credit Suisse identified in this material as 
"Contributors" and not by Credit Suisse's Research Department. The information contained in this document has been provided 
as general market commentary only and does not constitute any form of personal advice, legal, tax or other regulated financial 
service. It is intended only to provide observations and views of the Investment Strategy Department, which may be different 
from, or inconsistent with, the observations and views of Credit Suisse Research Department analysts, other Credit Suisse 
departments, or the proprietary positions of Credit Suisse. Observations and views expressed herein may be changed by the 
Investment Strategy Department at any time without notice. Credit Suisse accepts no liability for losses arising from the use of 
this material.  
This material does not purport to contain all of the information that an interested party may desire and, in fact, provides o nly a 
limited view of a particular market. It is not investment research, or a research recommendation for regulatory purposes, as it 
does not constitute substantive research or analysis. The information provided is not intended to provide a sufficient basis on 
which to make an investment decision and is not a personal recommendation or investment advice. While it has been obtained 
from or based upon sources believed by the trader or sales personnel to be reliable, each of the trader or sales personnel and 
Credit Suisse does not represent or warrant its accuracy or completeness and is not responsible for losses or damages arising  
from the use of this material.  
This communication is marketing material and/or trader commentary. It is not a product of the research department. This 
material constitutes an invitation to consider entering into a derivatives transaction under U.S. CFTC Regula tions §§ 1.71 and 
23.605, where applicable, but is not a binding offer to buy/sell any financial instrument. The views of the author may differ  
from others at Credit Suisse Group (including Credit Suisse Research).  
This material is issued and distributed in the U.S. by CSSU, a member of NYSE, FINRA, SIPC and the NFA, and CSSU 
accepts responsibility for its contents. Clients should contact analysts and execute transactions through a Credit Suisse 
subsidiary or affiliate in their home jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise.  
This material is provided for informational purposes and does not constitute an invitation or offer to subscribe for or purch ase 
any of the products or services mentioned.  
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("CSSEL") and Credit Suisse International ("CSI") are authorised by the Prudential 
Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") and the Prudential Regulation Authority under 
UK laws, which differ from Australian Laws. CSSEL and CSI do not hold an Australian Financial Services Licence ("AFSL") 
and are exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act (Cth) 2001 ("Corporations Act") in respect 
of the financial serv ices provided to Australian wholesale clients (within the meaning of section 761G of the Corporations Act) 
(hereinafter referred to as “Financial Services”). This material is not for distribution to retail clients and is directed ex clusively at 
Credit Suisse's professional clients and eligible counterparties as defined by the FCA, and wholesale clients as defined under 
section 761G of the Corporations Act. Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited ("CSHK") is licensed and regulated by the Securities 
and Futures Com mission of Hong Kong under the laws of Hong Kong, which differ from Australian laws. CSHKL does not 
hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing Financial 
Services. Investment banking se rvices in the United States are provided by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, an affiliate of 
Credit Suisse Group. CSSU is regulated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under United States laws, 
which differ from Australian laws. CSSU  does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under 
the Corporations Act in respect of providing Financial Services. Credit Suisse Asset Management LLC (CSAM) is authorised by 
the Securities and Exchange Commission under US laws, which differ from Australian laws. CSAM does not hold an AFSL and 
is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing Financial Services. Credit 
Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited (ABN 35 068 232 708) ("CSEA L") is an AFSL holder in Australia (AFSL 237237). In 
Australia, this material may only be distributed to Wholesale investors as defined in the Corporations Act. CSEAL is not an 
authorised deposit taking institution and products described herein do not repr esent deposits or other liabilities of Credit Suisse 
AG, Sydney Branch. Credit Suisse AG, Sydney Branch does not guarantee any particular rate of return on, or the performance 
of any products described.  
This report may not be reproduced either in whole or in part, without the written permission of Credit Suisse. Copyright © 2018 
Credit Suisse Group AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
 