 
 
 
Credit Suisse Economics  
 
Bretton Woods III 
 
 
 
We are witnessing the birth of Bretton Woods III  – a new world (monetary) order 
centered around commodity-based currencies in the East that will likely weaken 
the Eurodollar system and also contribute to inflationary forces in the West. 
A crisis is unfolding . A crisis of commodities. Commodities are collateral, and 
collateral is money, and this crisis is about the rising allure of outside money  
over inside money . Bretton Woods II was built on inside money, and its 
foundations crumbled a week ago when the G7 seized Russia’s FX reserves… 
The beautiful paradox of linear rates (the stuff you trade and I write about) is  
that you need to think linear to find relative value most of the time, but  
you have to think non-linear to recognize and survive regime shifts. We are seeing 
a regime shift unfold in funding markets currently (which, as always, will pass), 
and a sea change in inflation dynamics and FX reserve management practices. 
We have two convictions today. First, June FRA-OIS spreads can widen more, 
to at least 50 bps, both due to funding premiums driven by commodity prices 
and the market taking out Fed hikes, and second, it’s a good time to get long… 
…shipping freight rates . Yes, freight rates, which, at the current juncture are 
linked to “geo-monetary” dynamics. Freight rates are the price of balance sheet 
for “commodity RV traders” (the commodity trading houses) and for sovereigns 
that can take the risk of moving and storing subprime, sanctioned commodities. 
First, funding. Since the start of the confl ict in Ukraine, spot U.S. dollar Libor, 
FRA-OIS, and FX swaps have been showing signs of stress. Not much, but we hear 
two things from funding desks: cash is bid, and term cash is hard to come by. 
Normally, where o/n points trade in the FX swap market determines how the rest 
of the curve trades (low premia in o/n space mean low premia in term space). 
But these aren’t normal times. We have a crisis of sorts unfolding, and in a crisis, 
like in 2008, everyone lends at short maturities and the collapse in o/n premia 
is at the expense of term premia – in a crisis, term funding premia increase on 
the back of compressed o/n premia, as opposed to decline as they normally would. 
Who drives the bid for cash, i.e. whose bid is driving term funding premia in 
this environment where lenders are less willing to lend cash for  longer tenors? 
The commodities world, for three reasons. First, non -Russian commodities are 
more expensive due to  the sanctions -driven supply shock that basically took 
Russian commodities “offline”. If you are a (leveraged) commodities trader,  
you need to borrow more from banks to buy commodities to move and sell them. 
7 March 2022 
Investment Solutions & Products 
Global 
 
Important Information  
THIS IS NOT RESEARCH. PLEASE REFER TO THE IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES AND CONTACT YOUR CREDIT 
SUISSE REPRESENTATIVE FOR MORE DETAILS. This report represents the views of the Investment Strategy Department 
of Credit Suisse and has not been prepared in accordance with the legal requirements designed to promote the independence 
of investment research. It is not a product of the Credit Suisse Research Department and the view of the Investment Strategy 
Department may differ materially from the views of the Credit Suis se Research Department and other divisions at Credit 
Suisse, even if it references published research recommendations. Credit Suisse has a number of policies in place to promote 
the independence of Credit Suisse ’s Research Departments from Credit Suisse ’s Investment Strategy-and other departments 
and to manage conflicts of interest, including policies relating to dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research . 
These policies do not apply to the views of Investment Strategists contained in this report.  
 
 
CONTRIBUTOR 
Zoltan Pozsar 
212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
  
 
 
7 March 2022  
Bretton Woods III 2 
Second, if you are long non-Russian commodities and short the related futures, 
you are likely  having margin calls that need to be funded. Anyone in the 
commodities world is experiencing a perfect storm as correlations suddenly 
shot to 1, which is never a good thing. But that’s precisely what happens when 
the West sanctions the single -largest commodity producer of the world, which 
sells virtually everything. What we are seeing at the 50 -year anniversary of the 
1973 OPEC supply shock is something similar but substantially worse – the 
2022 Russia supply shock, which isn’t driven by the supplier but the consumer. 
Third, if you are short Russian commodities and long the related future s, then 
you are likely having margin calls too that also need to be funded like above.  
The aggressor in the geopolitical arena is being punished by sanctions, and  
sanctions-driven commodity price moves threaten financial stability in the West. 
Is there enough collateral for margin? Is there enough credit for margin? What 
happens to commodities futures exchanges if players fail? Are CCPs bulletproof? 
I haven’t seen these topics in the wide offering of Financial Stability Reports, 
have you? Is the OTC commodity derivatives market the gorilla in the room?  
The commodities market is much more finan cialized and leveraged today than 
it was during the 1973 OPEC supply crisis, and today’s Russian supply crisis is 
much bigger, much more broad-based, and much more correlated. It’s scarier. 
The higher non-Russian commodity prices get and the lower Russian commodity 
prices fall, the wider FRA-OIS will get, and if you want to express all this in the  
credit space, look at what CDS spreads on some bigger commodity traders 
have done since we published our Dispatch on commodity derivatives on Friday. 
Spot on! Next, let’s move on to the freight rates and Bretton Woods III angles.  
Regular readers of this publication know of Perry Mehrling: my “Keynes”  and 
father of the money view. As Perry Mehrling taught me, money has four prices: 
(1) Par – which is the price of different types of money and which means 
that cash, deposits, and money fund shares should always trade 1:1. 
(2) Interest – which is the price of fut ure money and which refers to OIS 
and spreads around OIS across all possible money market segments. 
(3) Exchange rate – the price of foreign money, i.e. U.S. dollars vs. the rest. 
(4) Price level  – which is the price of commodities (all of the Russian, 
non-Russian stuff) and, via commodities, the price of everything else. 
Recall our conversation in Friday’s Dispatch abo ut the parallels between the 
currently unfolding crisis and the crises of 1997, 1998, 2008 , and 2020, and 
the conclusions that we drew from the review of these crises. These were that 
every crisis occurs at the intersection of funding and collateral markets and that, 
in the presently unfolding crisis, commodities are collateral, and more precisely, 
Russian commodities are like subprime collateral and all other stuff is prime .  
Now, back to the four prices of money and how they link up with these themes: 
(1) Par – this is what broke in 2008 when money funds broke the buck 
and funding markets froze from fearing subprime mortgage collateral. 
(2) Interest – this is what broke in 2020 when bond RV trades crashed as 
the drawdown of credit lines pulled funding away from good collateral. 
(3) Exchange rate – this is what broke in 1997 when collateral (FX reserves) 
went missing and U.S. dollar funding staged a sudden stop in Asia. 
(4) Price level – this is what’s in play as we speak… 
 
 
7 March 2022  
Bretton Woods III 3 
…and if you see the pattern I see, you should be concerned. Commodities 
used to trade at tight spreads until now. There was one global market across 
all commodities that the large commodities traders arbitraged, much like a 
bond RV hedge fund s arbitrage the cash -futures basis. Mortgages were like 
that too before 2008 – public or private, prime or subprime, they all traded at par… 
…until they didn’t. 
Commodities no longer trade at par. The re are Russian commodities that are 
collapsing in price and there are non -Russian commodities that are rallying – 
this rally is due to the 2022 Russia supply shock that we referred to above,  
which, once again, is driven by present and future sanctions-related stigma. 
It’s a buyers’ strike. Not a seller’s strike, to make things all the more absurd… 
Russian commodities today are like subprime CDOs were in 2008. Conversely, 
non-Russian commodities are like U.S. Treasury securities were back in 2008.  
One collapsing in price, and the other one surging in price, with margin calls on 
both regardless of which side you are on. The “commodities basis” is soaring! 
Commodity correlations are also at 1, which, to stress, is never a good thing. 
From the 1997, 2008, and 2020 crises, we also learned that… 
…every crisis is about the core vs. the periphery  (large New York banks 
refusing to roll U.S. dollar funding in Southeast Asia in 1997; secured funding 
against subprime collateral to SIVs, Bear Stearns, and Lehman Brothers in 2008; 
and secured funding against good collateral to RV hedge funds during 2020). 
And from these crises we also learned that… 
…someone, somehow must always provide a backstop – or as Perry Mehrling 
would say, an “outside spread” (the IMF in Southeast Asia in 1997 in exchange 
for Washington consensus -type structural reforms; the Fed b ackstopping the 
shadow banking system with a range of facilities in 2008 in exchange for Basel III; 
and the Fed backstopping RV funds with QE and the SRF in March 2020, in 
exchange for “we don’t yet know what,” but history says there will be a price). 
Which brings us back to today – the present – and shipping freight rates. 
If we are right, and if this is a “ crisis of commodities ” – a 2008 of sorts 
thematically, if not in terms of size or severity – who will provide the backstop? 
We see but only one entity: the PBoC! 
Western central banks cannot close the gaping “commodities basis” because 
their respective sovereigns are the ones driving the sanctions. They will have to 
deal with the inflationary impacts of the “commodities basis” and try to cool them 
with rate hikes, but they will not be able to provide the outside spreads and  
won’t be able to provide balance sheet to close “Russia-non-Russia” spreads. 
Commodity traders won’t be able to either. Remember that Glencore rose from 
the ashes of Marc Rich + Co , and with Switzerland along with the sanctions, 
Swiss-based commodity traders will think twice about arbitraging the spreads. 
But the PBoC can… 
…as it banks for a sovereign who can dance to its own tune. To make things 
more complicated, China is probably thinking deep and hard about the value of 
the inside money claims in its FX reserves, now that the G7 seized Russia’s. 
The PBoC has two “geo-strategic” = “geo-financial” options… 
 
 
7 March 2022  
Bretton Woods III 4 
…sell Treasuries to fund the leasing and filling of vessels to clean up subprime 
Russian commodities. That would hurt long -term Treasury yields and stabilize 
the commodities basis and would give the PBoC control over inflation in China, 
while the West would suffer commodity shortages, a recession, and higher yields. 
Yuck. 
That can’t be good for long-term Treasury yields. 
The PBoC’s second option is to do its own version of QE – printing renminbi to 
buy Russian commodities. If so, that’s the birth of the Eurorenminbi market 
and China’s first real step to break the hegemony of the Eurodollar market. That 
is also inflationary for the West and means less demand for long-term Treasuries. 
Yuck. 
That can’t be good for long-term Treasury yields either. 
The idea behind going long shipping freight rates is simple : the price the  
PBoC will be paying to lease ships to fill them up with Russian commodities 
can in theory rise as much as the collapse in the price of Russian commodities:  
a lot. Renting boats is like renting balance sheet at a dealer to fund inventory, 
and if China does not have enough storage capacity on the mainland, it will 
store Russian commodities on vessels floating on the seas, encumbering not 
balance sheet (the PBoC is funding all this by printing money) but shipping 
capacity, which, for the rest of the world, will also be inflationary. Once again: 
if you believe that the West can craft sanctions that maximize pain for Russia 
while minimizing financial stability risks and price stability risks  in the West,  
you could also believe in unicorns. What G-SIBs are for financial stability… 
…Glencore is for price stability. 
In this instance, price instability (surging and collapsing commodity prices) 
feeds financial instability: margin calls may trigger the failure of some smaller 
commodity traders and maybe even some CCPs – the commodity exchanges. 
Again, commodity correlations are at 1, which is never a good thing… 
The Fed and other central banks will be able to provide liquidity backstops… 
…but those will be Band -Aid solutions. The true problem here is not liquidity 
per se . Liquid ity is just a manifestation of a larger problem, which is the 
Russian-non-Russian commodities basis, which only China will be able to close. 
Do you see what I see? 
Do you see inflation in the West written all over this like I do?  
This crisis is not like a nything we have seen since President Nixon took the  
U.S. dollar off gold in 1971 – the end of the era of commodity-based money. 
When this crisis (and war) is over, the U.S. dollar should be much weaker and,  
on the flipside, the renminbi much stronger, backed by a basket of commodities.  
From the Bretton Woods era backed by gold bullion, to Bretton  Woods II 
backed by inside money (Treasuries with un -hedgeable confiscation risks), to 
Bretton Woods III backed by outside money (gold bullion and other commodities). 
After this war is over, “money” will never be the same again… 
…and Bitcoin (if it still exists then) will probably benefit from all this. 
 
 
 
7 March 2022  
Bretton Woods III 5 
  
Additional Important Information  
This material has been prepared by the Investment Strategy Department personnel of Credit Suisse identified in this material as "Contributors" and not by Credit 
Suisse's Research Department. The information contained in this document has been provided as g eneral market commentary only and does not constitute any 
form of personal advice, legal, tax or other regulated financial advice or service. It is intended only to provide observatio ns and views of the Investment Strategy 
Department, which may be differen t from, or inconsistent with, the observations and views of Credit Suisse Research Department analysts, other Credit Suisse 
departments, or the proprietary positions of Credit Suisse. Observations and views expressed herein may be changed by the Inv estment Strategy Department at 
any time without notice. Credit Suisse accepts no liability for losses arising from the use or reliance on of this material. This material is not for distribution to retail 
clients and is directed exclusively at Credit Suisse’s institutional clients.  
FOR IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES on companies covered in Credit Suisse Global Markets Division research reports, please see http://www.credit-
suisse.com/researchdisclosures. To o btain a copy of the most recent Credit Suisse research on any company mentioned please contact your sales 
representative or go to http://www.credit-suisse.com/researchandanalytics.  
This material does not purport to contain all of the information that an interested party may desire and, in fact, provides only a li mited view of a particular market. 
It is not investment research, or a research recommendation for regulatory purposes, as it does not constitute substantive research or analysis. This material is 
provided for informational purposes only and does not constitute an invitation or offer to subscribe for or purchase any of the products or services mentioned.  
The information provided is n ot intended to provide a sufficient basis on which to make an investment decision and is not a personal recommendation or 
investment advice. While it has been obtained from or based upon sources believed by the trader or sales personnel to be reli able, each of the trader or sales 
personnel and Credit Suisse does not represent or warrant its accuracy or completeness and is not responsible for losses or d amages arising from the use or 
reliance on of this material.  
Where distribution of this material is subje ct to the rules of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), it is a “solicitation” of derivatives 
business only as that term is used within CFTC Rule 1.71 and 23.605 promulgated under the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (the “C FTC Rules”) where 
applicable, but is not a binding offer to buy/sell any financial instrument. The views of the author may differ from others a t Credit Suisse Group (including Credit 
Suisse Research).  
Credit Suisse is acting solely as an arm’s length contractual counterpar ty and not as a financial adviser (or in any other advisory capacity including tax, legal, 
accounting or otherwise) or in a fiduciary capacity. Any information provided does not constitute advice or a recommendation to enter into or conclude any 
transaction. Before entering into any transaction, you should ensure that you fully understand the potential risks and rewards and independently determine that it 
is appropriate for you given your objectives, experience, financial and operational resources, and othe r relevant circumstances. You should consult with such 
advisers (including, without limitation, tax advisers, legal advisers and accountants) as you deem necessary.  
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("CSSEL") and Credit Suisse International ("CSI" ) are authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") and the Prudential Regulation Authority under UK laws, which differ from Australia n Laws. CSSEL and CSI do not 
hold an Australian Financial Ser vices Licence ("AFSL") and are exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act (Cth) 2001 
("Corporations Act") in respect of the financial services provided to Australian wholesale clients (within the meaning of sec tion 761G of the C orporations Act) 
(hereinafter referred to as “Financial Services”). This material is not for distribution to retail clients and is directed ex clusively at Credit Suisse's professional 
clients and eligible counterparties as defined by the FCA, and wholesale  clients as defined under section 761G of the Corporations Act. Credit Suisse (Hong 
Kong) Limited ("CSHK") is licensed and regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong under the laws of Hong  Kong, which differ from 
Australian laws. CSHKL  does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing 
Financial Services. Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited (ABN 35 068 232 708) ("CSEAL") is an AFSL holder in Australia (AFSL 237237). In Australia, 
this material may only be distributed to Wholesale investors as defined in the Corporations Act. CSEAL is not an authorised d eposit taking institution and 
products described herein do not represent deposits or other liabilities of Cr edit Suisse AG, Sydney Branch. Credit Suisse AG, Sydney Branch does not 
guarantee any particular rate of return on, or the performance of any products described.  
This material is distributed in the European Union by Credit Suisse Bank (Europe), S.A. regulated by the Comision Nacional del Mercado de Valores.  
If this material is issued and distributed in the U.S., it is by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (“CSSU”), a member of NYS E, FINRA, SIPC and the NFA, and 
CSSU accepts responsibility for its contents . Clients should contact sales coverage and execute transactions through a Credit Suisse subsidiary or affiliate in 
their home jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise. Investment banking services in the United States are provided  by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) 
LLC, an affiliate of Credit Suisse Group. CSSU is regulated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under Uni ted States laws, which differ 
from Australian laws. CSSU does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requireme nt to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing 
Financial Services. Credit Suisse Asset Management LLC (CSAM) is authorised by the Securities and Exchange Commission under U S laws, which differ from 
Australian laws. CSAM does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing Financial 
Services.  
If this material is issued and distributed in Japan, it is issued and distributed in Japan by Credit Suisse Securities (Japa n) Limited, Financial Instruments Firm, 
Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Kinsho) No. 66, a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Financial Future s Association of 
Japan, Japan Investment Advisers Association, Type II Financial I nstruments Firms Association. This report has been prepared and issued for distribution in 
Japan to Credit Suisse’s clients, including institutional investors;  
This report may not be reproduced either in whole or in part, without the written permission of  Credit Suisse. All trademarks, service marks and logos used in 
this document are trademarks or service marks or registered trademarks or service marks of Credit Suisse or its information p roviders. All material presented in 
this document, unless specifica lly indicated otherwise, is under copyright to Credit Suisse or its information providers. Copyright © 2022 Credit Suisse Gro up 
AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
 