 
DISCLOSURE APPENDIX AT THE BACK OF THIS REPORT CONTAINS IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES, LEGAL ENTITY 
DISCLOSURE AND ANALYST CERTIFICATIONS.    
 
 
 18 November 2016 
Global 
Fixed Income Research 
Global Strategy 
 Global Money Notes #8 
Research Analysts 
Zoltan Pozsar 
 212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
   
 From Exorbitant Privilege to Existential Trilemma 
We have yet to see what President Trump means for the Fed’s independence 
and monetary policy going forward, but for now our expectation remains that 
the FOMC will remain willing and free to normalize short-term interest rates. 
With that assumption in mind, th is issue of Global Money Notes  explains why 
an FOMC determined to normalize interest rates has no choice but to become 
a Dealer of Last Resort in the FX swap market and provide quantitative 
Eurodollar easing (“QEE”) for the rest of the world through its dollar swap lines. 
The U.S.’s exorbitant privilege – its ability to borrow in its own currency 
anywhere in the world thanks to a vast and deep Eurodollar market – is waning.  
The first throw of sand at the gears of the global Eurodollar market was the 
adoption of Basel III which imposed liquidity requirements on a system born 
out of banks’ desire to avoid reserve requirements in the first place (see here). 
The second was money fund reform. 
Prime funds’ loss of over $1 trillion in assets under management amounts to 
the clamping of a major global funding “artery” whose role was to bridge the 
Eurodollar market ’s marginal dollar needs. These needs are now bridged  
through a smaller and increasingly tight “vein”  that’s the balance sheet of 
American banks under Basel III. The result is a Eurodollar market that’s 
structurally more expensive and less liquid and dominant than it used to be. 
Basel III and money fund reform are turning the exorbitant privilege into an 
existential trilemma that’s usually a problem for EM central banks with pegs to 
the dollar, rather than the Fed at the center of the dollar-based financial order. 
According to the Fed’s newfound trilemma, it is impossible to ha ve constraints 
on bank balance sheets (restraining capital mobility in global money markets), 
a par exchange rate between onshore dollars and Eurodollars, and a 
domestically oriented monetary policy mandate. Something will have to give. 
It’s either the cro ss-currency basis, the foreign exchange value of the dollar or 
the hiking cycle. It’s either the Fed’s regulatory and monetary objectives, or 
control over the Fed’s balance sheet size. It’s either quantities or prices… 
Cross-currency bases will have to go more negative before the Fed steps in, 
and -150 bps on the three-month dollar-yen basis is not an unlikely target. 
In a way, QEE is the missing piece in a mosaic where the ECB and the BoJ 
continue on with QE at an aggressive pace , and investors in their ju risdictions 
are filling their duration gaps with higher -yielding U.S. dollar assets on a 
hedged basis. But the private provision of FX swaps to hedge these flows can’t 
possibly keep pace with the public creation of euros and yen on massive scale. 
Elephant-size €QE and QQE can only be countered by elephant size QEE :  
the Fed needs to lend banks a hand and provide dollar hedges more cheaply. 
It’s either Lender of Last Resort or Dealer of Last Resort. 
Take your pick… 

 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 2 
Part 1 – Clamping an Artery 
Going int o the October 14 prime money fund reform deadline, institutional -class prime 
funds prepared for the worst and hoped for the best – they provisioned for about 70% of 
assets under management (AuM) leaving and expected that only 50% will leav e. But 
outflows t urned out to be far worse than expected  – just under  90% of AuM  – and so 
expectations that any margin of safety built into pre-cautionary liquidity buffers wil l quickly 
flow back to the CD and CP markets and compress rates post-deadline didn’t materialize. 
Judging from price action and high -frequency data on foreign banks’ CD and CP issuance 
since May, the bulk of unsecured funding lost to prime money fund reform was replaced 
mostly through the FX swap market, and to a lesser extent through the term debt market. 
With that shift, large American banks and asset managers (corporate bond funds) 
replaced prime money market funds as the marginal lenders of dollars to foreign banks,    
and by extension, the outer rim of the U.S. money market (the offshore FX swap m arket)   
and capital markets replaced the inner core (the onshore CD and CP market in New York).  
Figure 1 shows the price impact of this shift in the FX swap market, and Figure 2 shows 
where we believe foreign banks’ marginal funding curve currently trades: in our view,     
the orange curves are a more accurate reflection of foreign banks’ marginal funding curve 
for dollars longer than 30 -days than the blue U.S. dollar Libor curve . We plotted the 
orange lines by taking the average of three -month FX-swap implied costs of dollar funding 
for key currencies and the yields of major foreign banks’ one- and two-year fixed rate debt. 
Going forward, we expect these markets to be a deeper source  of marginal (“just-in-time”) 
funding than the term CD and CP market . While at $1 trillion the term CD and CP market 
remains large, its nature has changed. Pre-reform, prime funds represented a $1 trillion pool 
of “omnipresent” liquidity that was sliced and diced according to foreign banks’ needs: 
investors in prime funds rolled their o/n balances everyday which foreign banks could tap in 
custom terms and size any day – the way a marginal funding market is supposed to trade. 
But this omnipresent pool of liquidity is now gone. 
What’s left is investors with a periodic as opposed t o c onstant presence in the market . 
With that shift the term CD and CP market became more similar to the real estate market 
(where trades happen if a buyer wants exactly what a seller has at exactly the same time) 
than a marginal funding market where pools of liquidity are ready for any trade at any time.  
The key question from here is how much money will come back to prime money funds. 
If the answer is a lot, then rates could come down as prime  funds pour money back into 
the term CD and CP market. The recent climb in rates will go down in history as cyclical. 
If the answer is not much, then funding rates will stay elevated indefinitely. We’ve reached 
the “new normal” and the recent climb in rates will go down in history as structural. 
Which one will it be? 
It looks like the latter, for four reasons: regulatory constraints on generating yield, 
preference for safety over yield, economies of scale, and the “gravitational” pull of Basel III. 
First, the SEC’s new liquidity rules will limit prime funds’ ability to generate yield to lure 
money back from government funds. The new rules effectively turn half the portfolio of 
prime funds into a government fund, which will limit yield spread s over government funds 
to about a half of their historical average.1 Whatever spread prime funds will have over 
government funds, it won’t be enough to compensate investors for the risk of liquidity gates. 
                                                      
1 The SEC’s new rules require prime money funds to hold at least 30% of their AuM in liquid assets such as U.S. Treasuries. But  
since reaching the 30% minimum would require the imposition of liquidity gates and fees, prime money funds are implementing 
the new rules with a considerable margin of safety, running their liquidity buffers at close to 50% of their AuM on average. 
 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 3 
Figure 1: Funding at the “Outer Rim” 
FX swap-implied costs of three-month U.S. dollar funding, % 
 
Source: Credit Suisse, the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service 
 
Figure 2: Which is the True Marginal Bank Funding Curve? 
%, as of October 28, 2016 unless otherwise noted 
 
Source: Credit Suisse, the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service 
0.40
0.60
0.80
1.00
1.20
1.40
1.60
1.80
0.40
0.60
0.80
1.00
1.20
1.40
1.60
1.80
Jan-16 Apr-16 Jul-16 Oct-16
Implied funding cost JPY Iimplied funding cost GBP Implied funding cost EUR Implied funding cost CAD Implied funding cost CHF
Pre-reform average (Q1) Pre-reform average (Q1) Pre-reform average (Q1) Pre-reform average (Q1) Pre-reform average (Q1)
Prime fund outflows start...
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
2.00
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
2.00
o/n 1-week 1-month 3-month 6-month 1-year 2-year
U.S. dollar Libor 3-month FX swap rate (average) 2-year term bank debt (fixed rate) 2-year one month ago 3-month one month ago
 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 4 
Second, reforms will also limit treasurers’ demand for yield and hence prime money funds. 
When regulatory reforms are turning prime funds from a liquidity vehicle to a credit vehicle, 
effectively cutting the system’s menu of options for safe, par on demand vehicles from 
three (demand deposits, government funds and prime funds) to two (demand deposits and 
government funds), the natural response of investors is to gravitate toward safety (that is 
government funds), not yield (that is, prime funds). This, combined with prime funds’ 
constraints to generate yield going forward, will severely limit flows back into prime funds.  
Third, if there is neither yield pickup, nor reach for yield, the future of what is left of 
institutional-class prime funds looks rather bleak. Institutional prime funds lost $800 billion 
in AuM since 2015, leaving only $100 billion in assets to look after (see Figure 3). Whether 
such a small asset -base can support overheads that were scaled to manage trillions, not 
billions is yet to be seen. Economies of scale matter and are make or break.  
Fourth, the future of retail prime funds also looks bleak due to the gravitational pull of Basel 
III. Retail prime funds lost $250 billion in AuM since 2015, with only $250 billion left. Retail 
deposits are "gold" for large American banks as they require no HQLA and count as NSFR 
at face value. In an era whe n banks like Goldman Sachs are paying over 100 bps for  
checking accounts, funds will continue to migrate out of prime funds paying only 25 bps. 
If we are right that prime funds will shrink further from here,  the steepening of the Libor 
curve, the widening of Libor -OIS spreads and the increase in offshore dollar funding costs 
we have witnessed to date are all structural, not cyclical. At best we are looking at funding 
markets to stabilize at current leve ls, and at worst we are looking for the curve to steepen, 
spreads to widen and cross -currency bases to sink much deeper into negative territory as 
prime money market funds fail to attract cash back and continue to bleed assets over time. 
The end-state of the system is one where foreign banks raise their marginal dollars mostly 
in the FX swap market (from American banks) or the capital market (from asset managers). 
The end -state is dominated by American banks because post -reform, they are the only 
ones left with access to cheap retail dollars onshore to len d offshore via FX swaps – all 
foreign banks that used to lend via FX swaps raised dollars wholesale from prime funds  
(for a review of the impact of money fund reform on the FX swap market see Appendix 1). 
As large American banks grow to dominate the FX swap market, they will inevitably 
become the marginal price setters in  the system. Going forward, the key questions from a 
pricing perspective will be how American banks’ growi ng FX swap books will push up 
against their  balance sheet  constraints: (1) how much balance sheet they will have to 
onboard these trades from an SLR perspective; (2) what will these trades do to  their LCR; 
(3) what will the looming requirement to currency -match HQLA portfolios mean for their 
appetite to do these trades; and (4) will the Volcker Rule let them run speculative books? 
None of these constraints mean anything good for the marginal cost of Eurodollar funding 
going forward, which means that what ’s referred to as a “ global dollar shortage ” is bound 
to get worse in the future. But in light of the points raised above, none of this is about a 
shortage of dollars   per se, but rather a shortage of balance sheet to intermediate dollars 
(please, let’s forget the whole “shortage versus scarcity” debate and call a spade a spade). 
Effectively, what we have here is a case where money fund reform amounts to the 
clamping of a major global funding “artery” and a redirection of flows through a smaller and 
increasingly tight "vein"  that is the balance sheet of American global banks under Basel III. 
For a sense of scale, consider that over $1 trillion has left prime funds. Now consider the 
image of American banks absorbing these flows through hamstrung balance sheets… 
…what you see is an elephant inside a snake (see Figure 4), and a global dollar funding  
market structurally more expensive and less liquid and dominant than it used to be. 
 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 5 
Figure 3: Tectonic Shifts 
$ billions 
 
Source: Credit Suisse, the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service 
 
Part 2 – QEE and the Fed as Dealer of Last Resort 
What does all this mean for the Fed? 
Quite a lot, which makes the fact that no Fed official devoted a speech to the topic of 
prime money fund reform and its local and global repercussions puzzling to say the least. 
First, the local repercussions. 
Prime money fund reform just made the ARRC’s quest for an alternative reference rate 
more difficult and will increase the allure of a re po rate as an alternative (see here). 
Outflows from prime funds to date have reduced the volume of o/ n Eurodollar trades from 
$250 billion to $ 90 billion today (see Figure 5).2 By the time the dust of reform will settle, 
the OBFR will have lost most of its volume advantage over the fed funds rate, in our view.  
Next, the global repercussions. 
The message that emerged from the previous section is that the era of cheap margina l 
flows into the Eurodollar market are over. Tapping the CD and CP markets via prime funds 
is a thing of the past and the future likely belongs to American global banks that are set to 
become the dominant price-setters of the marginal dollars the rest of t he world needs. The 
key to figuring out where cross currency bases will settle is to figure out the interaction 
between American banks’ growing FX swap books and their balance sheet constraints. 
The more dollars American banks will intermediate through the FX swap market , the less 
balance sheet they will have left over for everything else, and the higher the price of the 
marginal FX trade will have to be. Standard logics of arbitrage do not hold under Basel III: 
with balance sheets no longer unlimited, the more you arb the higher the marginal price.3 
                                                      
2  This is because institutional-class prime money funds were the single biggest lenders of o/n Eurodollars in the Caribbean -based 
segment of the Eurodollar market as measured by the Federal Reserve’s new overnight bank funding rate (OBFR). 
3  Banks arbitrage differences between onshor e and offshore funding rates by borrowing onshore in the CD and CP market from 
prime money funds and lending the proceeds in the FX swap market. Such arbitrage trades inflate banks’ balance sheets. 
-800
-600
-400
-200
0
200
400
600
800
-800
-600
-400
-200
0
200
400
600
800
14 15 16
Outflows from institutional prime funds Inflows into institutional government funds
 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 6 
Either way we look at it, cross-currency bases  are bound to get more negative, with no 
private mechanism in place to check three-month points from sinking as low as -150 bps. 
The limit to this will be the extent  to which the rest of the world will be able to cope with 
higher dollar funding costs and how these will feed back to the Fed’s reaction function. 
There are at least three feedback channels. 
First, an ongoing increase in the FX swap-implied cost of dollar funding and increasingly 
negative cross-currency bases mean tighter financial conditions for the rest of the world. In 
turn, tighter financial conditions point to slower , not faster  global growth as foreign banks 
pass on higher costs to their customers or worse: de-lever their books. Th ese dynamics 
are disinflationary on the margin and don’t help interest rate normalization back in the U.S. 
Second, increasingly negative cross-currency bases mean rising hedging costs for foreign 
investors on their U.S. dollar assets, which force them out the duration curve and down the 
credit spectrum. In turn, this tends to ease financial conditions, raise financial stability risks, 
and also blunt the traditional channels of monetary policy transmis sion back in the U.S.  
Chairman Greenspan’s conundrum is back and spreading to mortgage and credit curves. 
Third, everything described above goes hand -in-hand with a further strength ening of the 
dollar (see Figure 6)  – this is because increasing hedging costs are prompting foreign 
investors to reduce their hedge ratios or take on naked exposures, both of which tend to 
drive the appreciation of the dollar . If the Fed leaves the intermediation of all of the rest of 
the world’s marginal dollar needs to American banks' constrained balanc e sheets, offshore 
financial conditions  may tighten and the dollar may strengthen to the point where they are 
no longer consistent with the path the Fed envisioned for the funds rate (see Shin, 2016): 
rounds of RMB devaluation would follow which also won’t help interest rate normalization. 
Figure 5: It’s Back to the Drawing Board for the ARRC… 
$ billions 
 
Source: Credit Suisse, the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service 
 
44
70
50 46
112
200
227
131
113
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
15 16
o/n FF volume (reported) o/n FF volume (ex month ends) o/n ED volume (reported) o/n ED volume (ex month ends)
 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 7 
Figure 6: The Cross-Currency Basis and the U.S. Dollar 
January 2nd, 2007 = 100 (LHS), basis points (RHS) 
 
Source: BIS 
It seems like balance sheet constraints are in conflict with monetary policy objectives… 
Balance sheet  constraints are driving prices in a way where financial condi tions abroad 
are tighter than  financial conditions in the U.S . Where b orrowing a Eurodollar is more 
expensive than borrowing an onshore dollar. The feedback of this on the U.S. dollar and 
financial stability risks are making interest rate hikes less possible and also less effective.  
What to do? 
In this environment, the only bank that could counter the tendency of cross-currency bases 
to sink deeper and deeper into negative territory is none other than the New York Fed. 
It could do so b y scrapping its philosophy that it should primarily serve the system as a 
Lender of Last Resort – providing a liquidity backstop   when no one wants to lend – and 
become a Dealer of Last Resort  – providing a backstop to prices   when dealers hit their 
balance sheet constraints and have no room left to make markets at reasonable spreads. 
The tool to use is the Fed's dollar swap lines but the aim would no longer be to backstop 
funding markets, but to police the range within which various cross currency bases trade. 
Just as the reas ons why various cross currency bases spiked during 2008 and 2011  
(credit and sovereign risks) were different from the reasons why they have been widening 
since 2014 (Basel III and money fund reform), the mindset with which the dollar swap lines 
should be deployed today should also be different – not to provide a liquidity backstop 
because prime funds won’t lend to banks , but to provide a balance sheet backstop 
because private market makers are pushing up against their balance sheet constraints , 
and are giving quotes that are strengthening the dollar and forcing the Fed to stay on hold. 
Of course, if the Fed were to switch from treating the swap lines as a funding backstop to 
a pricing backstop , its attitude toward being tapped would have to be relaxed. In E nglish, 
this means that long held notions of stigma would have to be ex punged from the market’s 
conscience and everyone would have to adopt  a mindset where if banks’ quotes are more 
expensive than the quotes of the Fed, everyone would default to trading w ith the Fed with 
no further thought, period – much like the ECB’s repo facilities are routinely tapped. 
Will this really happen? 
It’s not unlikely. We know from the July FOMC minutes that the Fed is actively looking into 
"approaches  to reducing perceived stigma associated with borrowing at the discount 
window" and is conscious that "the dollar is the principal reserve currency and that 
monetary transmission in the U.S. occurs through globally connected funding markets". 

 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 8 
The Fed’s ongoing review of its Long-Run Monetary Policy Implementation Framework    
(to be published in January) may conclude the Fed should become a Dealer of Last Resort 
and be willing to make markets once spreads hit certain levels (the “outside” spread) . Not 
doing so would  have unwanted feedbacks on the dollar, the RMB’s peg to the dollar, and 
the Fed’s ability to raise rates. Were the Fed to turn into a Dealer of Last Resort, it would 
give up control over its balance sheet and so should charge more for the dollar swap lines. 
Recognize that the theme we’ve been emphasizing about the U.S. money market (see here) 
– that the sovereign has effectively crowded out private banks in money markets onshore4  
– is also inevitable in money markets offshore. The Eurodollar market is a private system 
and the historically tight relationship between onshore and offshor e funding curves implied 
a “par exchange rate” between onshore dollars and Eurodollars – OIS, Libor and FX swap 
curves were all on top of each other. The widening spreads between Libor and OIS , and 
Libor and FX swap -implied dollar funding rates ( that is, the cross-currency basis) reflect a 
structural breakdown of the par exchange rate between onshore dollars and Eurodollars – 
just as  the crisis of 2008 marked a similar breakdown. But 2008 was a panic. It was 
temporary. Today is structural. It feels more per sistent than temporary. It is driven by 
balance sheet constraints due to Basel III which limit American banks’ ability to serve as 
private dealers of dollars from onshore to offshore. It also means that a dollar abroad is 
more expensive than a dollar at ho me, which will continue to push the spot value of the 
dollar higher and higher unless the Fed decides to give up control over its balance sheet 
and ease the shortage of offshore dollars by becoming a public dealer of Eurodollars. 
Regulatory reforms turned the exorbitant privilege into an existential trilemma  typically 
associated with emerging market economies with fixed exchange rates to the U.S. dollar. 
According to the impossible trinity of yore it is only possible to have two of three goals:      
free capital mobility, a fixed FX rate and monetary policy oriented toward domestic goals. 
The Fed now faces the impossible trinity in a new form:  it’s impossible to have const raints 
on bank balance sheets ( restraining free capital mobility in global money market s), a par 
exchange rate between onshore and of fshore dollars across the term structure, and a 
monetary policy oriented toward domestic goals. Either way, something will have to give: 
(1) Reforms – the domain of Governor Tarullo – are limiting balance sheet quantities 
and driving a wedge between the price of onshore and offshore dollars as evident 
in more negative cross-currency bases. This contributes to the dollar’s strength. 
(2) Monetary policy independence – the domain of Chair Yellen – is under threat, as 
a stronger dollar increases the chance of further RMB devaluation by the P BoC. 
The deflationary risks inherent in RMB devaluation limit the Fed’s ability to hike. 
(3) Quantitative Eurodollar easing (“QEE”) for the rest of the world is the solution, 
which is President Dudley’s domain. If the increasing cost of Eurodollars is what’s 
driving the appreciation of the dollar, and the appreciation of the dollar is what 
stands in the way of the Fed’s hiking cycle, it appears that the right thing to do is 
to break the impass e and give the rest of the world what it needs through the 
swap lines so as to relieve the pressure on the dollar so that the FOMC can hike. 
It’s either quantities or prices… 
Monetary policy divergence is not a new phenomenon – we’ve seen it in the past . But in 
the past, unconstrained balance sheets ensured that cross currency bases were minimal  
(or in other words, deviations from covered interest parity weren’t large or persistent). 
 
                                                      
4  Look no further than the demise of prime funds and rise  of government-only funds, the increased volume of bills issued by the 
U.S. Treasury, the increased volume of floaters issued by by the FHLBs and the increased size of the Fed’s foreign repo pool 
and o/n RRP facility as counterparts to less short-term funding raised by banks and primary dealers’ diminished repo books. 
 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 9 
Under the old regime, the focus was on prices and tight spreads  – or in the present 
context a “par exchange rate ” between onshore and offshore dollar  funding curves . 
Quantities (balance sheet) were endless, and the volume of matched money market books 
that accumulated through global banks’ money dealing activities – borrowing in onshore 
segments of the money market in order to lend offshore – were massive indeed. No longer. 
Basel III restricting quantities and money fund reform clamping a main funding artery is 
turning the Fed’s world on its head. Quantity constraints will have to be relaxed if the Fed 
wants to have monetary independence and parity between onshore and offshore dollars. 
Barring the scrapping of Basel III  or the blanket exemption of reserves from the SLR , 
quantitative Eurodollar easing (“QEE”) for the world – the f ixed-price, full-allotment 
broadcast of Eurodollars globally through the dollar swap lines – is the solution we need. 
In a way, QEE is the missing piece in a mosaic where the ECB and BoJ continue with QE 
and investors in their jurisdictions are looking to fill their duration gaps with higher -yielding 
dollar assets on a hedged basis. But the private provision of FX swaps to hedge these 
flows cannot possibly keep pace with the public creation of euros and yen on mass scale. 
Conclusions 
Elephant-size €QEs and QQEs can only be countered by elephant-size QEEs by the Fed : 
the Fed needs to lend banks a hand and provide Eurodollars more cheaply to the world… 
It’s either regulatory and monetary objectives or the Fed’s balance sheet size. 
It’s either the cross-currency basis, the dollar or the next hike. 
It’s either Lender of Last Resort or Dealer of Last Resort. 
Take your pick… 
  
 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 10 
Appendix 1 – Pricing at the Outer Rim 
Figure A-1 lists the four steps involved in foreign banks’ and investors’ use of FX swaps.     
It also demonstrates the example of a firm borrowing euros to arbitrage funding costs .     
All three cases are examples of market participants borrowing dollars via FX swaps. 
Figure A-2 aims to explain how two of these borrowers (banks and real money accounts) 
link up with the suppliers of dollars via FX swaps, using the dollar-yen basis as an example. 
On the demand side we have real money accounts such as insurance companies and 
pension funds with a need to hedge dollar investments (motivated by search for yield), and 
banks with a need to fund dollar loans (search for lending opportunities outside of Japan). 
 On the supply side, we have prime money funds that lend dollars onshore (in New York to 
the New York branches of Japanese banks which then “forward” thos e dollars to Tokyo) 
and institutional cash pools that lend dollars offshore (from New York or anywhere in the 
world to Tokyo). Institutional cash pools include FX reserve managers like the RBA (see 
page 44 of their latest annual report  for a sense of their size in the FX swap market), 
multilateral accounts like the IMF or the World Bank, asset managers and hedge funds. 
Structurally, these four groups of players li ne up such that Japanese real money accounts 
only have access to the FX swap market for dollars, but not the cheaper CD and CP 
market where money funds lend. Japanese banks have access to both sources, but they 
historically opted for the latter as CD and CP funding is typically cheaper than FX swaps. 
On the lending side, regulations allowed prime funds to lend only in CD and CP markets 
but not the FX swap market, and institutional cash pools were free to lend wherever. Free 
to be, they historically opted fo r FX swaps as swaps paid better than CD and CP. Not 
doing so would have been like not picking up €500 bills from the pavement day after day. 
Those who could borrow dollars only through FX swaps (real money accounts) and those 
who chose to lend dollars only  through FX swaps (institutional cash pools) “met” through 
the matched books of market makers – global banks active in the FX swap market. 
No market is ever balanced, however, and market makers’ job is to smooth temporary 
imbalances in order flows through their speculative books . Demand for dollars in Tokyo 
has been persistently stronger than the supply of dollars from cash pools, and global 
banks bridged this structural dollar shortage by tapping markets onshore to lend offshore. 
It is here – in the speculative books – where the price of the marginal FX swap trade is set. 
Figure A-3 builds on Figure A-2 by adding the typical tenors that each participant trades in.  
Japanese real money accounts borrow at the three-month point of the FX swap market    (to 
hedge quarterly coupon flows), and banks borrow in the three -month CD and CP market 
from prime funds to minimize their HQLA funding costs while staying LCR compliant. 
Institutional cash pools typically lend at the richest point of the FX forward curve, which,  
given the hedging needs of real money accounts and banks , is the tree -month point. 
Correspondingly, market makers’ books are dominated by matching three-month swaps. 
Imbalances in order flows also involve mostly three -month FX swaps. Global banks fund 
these speculative long positions with funding that is structurally cheaper to raise. For non -
American global banks these come from prime funds at tenors shorter than 30-days. 
But for American global banks these funds are essentially for “free” – they have end less 
amounts of retail deposits at their disposal, and if they need to raise funds elsewhere, the 
FHLBs are there to offer one-week or one-month money at 55 and 60 bps, respectively.  
Given these structural funding relationships, Figure A-4 demonstrates what the demise of 
prime money funds means for the balance of pricing power in the system going forward. 
First, it means that Japanese banks (and banks from other jurisdictions as well) will lose 
access to cheap onshore dollars via CD and CP and will replace them with FX swaps. 
 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 11 
Second, just as Japanese banks will be shifting toward FX swaps for funding, the size of 
non-American speculative books in the market will be shrinking. This is because the cheap 
source of CD and CP funding from prime funds to non-American global banks that are 
active arbitrageurs of the difference between offshore and onshore rates will be gone. 
Enter the American bank, which, as noted above, ha s a funding advantage over everyone 
else and hence is uniquely positioned to dominate the FX swap market going forward. 
As large American banks grow to dominate the FX swap market, they will inevitably 
become the marginal price setters in in the system . The key questions from a pricing 
perspective will be how an increased volume of speculative FX swaps positions will  
interact with American banks’ regulatory constraints – how much balance sheet will they 
have to onboard these trades from an SLR perspective; what will these trades do to their 
LCR; what will the looming requirement to currency -match HQLA portfolios mean for their 
overall appetite to do these trades; will the Volcker Rule let them run speculative books? 
Figure out these questions and you will find the ‘keys to the kingdom’. And remember this: 
under Basel III, the more dollars American banks intermediate via FX swaps, the less 
balance sheet they will have left over for everything else, and the higher the price of the 
marginal FX trade will have to be. Standard logics of arbitrage do not hold under Basel III: 
with balance sheets no longer unlimited, the more you arb the higher the marginal price.5 
Either way we look at it, cross-currency bases  are bound to get more negative, with no 
private mechanism in place to check three-month points from sinking as low as -150 bps. 
The limit to this wi ll be the extent to which the rest of the world will be able to cope with 
higher dollar funding costs and how these costs will feed back to the Fed’s reaction function 
In this environment, the only bank that can counter the tendency of cross -currency bases 
to sink deeper and deeper into negative territory is none other than FRBNY (see above). 
Other than money fund reform in the U.S. , there are at  least t hree risks on the horizon 
which point to a further increase in American banks’ dominance in the FX swap market. 
First, money fund reform in the EU. Investors should know that about half of money funds 
in the EU are U.S. dollar -denominated. If the EU reforms follow the spirit of U.S. reforms, 
we can expect a further steepening of the U.S. dollar Libor curve, a  further migration of 
funding from Eurodollar CD and CP markets to FX swaps, a further reduction in funding for 
non-American global banks for arbitrage, and more on the plate of American global banks. 
If institutional-class prime outflows were the first wa ve to push the Libor curve steeper and 
cross-currency bases more negative, and retail -class prime fund outflows are the second, 
then EU money fund reform will be the third. We should forget about Libor normalization… 
Second, shortages of JGB bills are maki ng it increasingly difficult for hedge funds and 
asset managers to find assets to invest yen collateral when lending dollars via FX swaps.  
This will naturally impede the volume of FX swaps intermediated through matched books, 
and will pressure large Americ an banks to increase their speculative books  further. This 
will exacerbate balance sheet pressures and push cross -currency bases more negative   
(note that unlike hedge funds and asset managers, large American banks can deposit yen 
at the BoJ via their Tokyo branches and so aren’t limited by the shortage of JGB bills). 
Third, the reform of the U.S. corporate tax code and the potential re -patriation of hundreds 
of billions of cash currently parked abroad. These offshore cash balances form an integral 
part of the funding base of Eurodollar loan books across the globe. Were these cash 
balances to flow back into the U.S. , then even more of the funding of Eurodollar assets 
would have to come from large American banks through FX swap s. The impact of this on 
cross-currency bases would make money fund reform look like baby stuff (see Figure A-5). 
                                                      
5  Banks arbitrage differences between onshore and offshore funding rates by borrowing onshore in the CD and CP market from 
prime money funds and lending the proceeds in the FX swap market. Such arbitrage trades inflate banks’ balance sheets. 
 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 12 
Figure A-1: FX Swap Uses  
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
 
[1] Fund in ¥. ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ € € Fund in €. [1]
Time: t (spot) (cash) (deposit) (cash) (alpha) (cash) (bond) Time: t (spot)
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ € €
(cash) (deposit) (cash) (alpha) (cash) (bond)
[2] Exchange ¥ for $ spot (buy $). $ $ $ Exchange € for $ spot (buy $). [2]
[2] (currency risk) (cash) (cash) (cash) (currency risk)  [2]
Time: t (spot) Time: t (spot)
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ € €
(cash) (deposit) (cash) (alpha) (cash) (bond)
[3] Spend $ on U.S. dollar assets. $ $ $ Spend $ on dividends paid or w hatever [3]
[3] (currency, duration and credit risk) (loan) (bond) (spend) (currency risk) [3]
Time: t (spot) Time: t (spot)
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ € €
(cash) (deposit) (cash) (alpha) (cash) (bond)
$ $ $
(loan) (bond) (spend)
[4] Hedge by selling $ from quarterly interest flow s ¥ $ ¥ $ € $ Hedge by selling $ from cash inflow s from sales [4]
[4] forw ard for ¥ at today's forw ard FX rate. (buy FW) (sell FW) (buy FW) (sell FW) (buy FW) (sell FW) forw ard for € at today's forw ard FX rate. [4]
[4] (duration and credit risk, no more FX risk)
[5] Net Cash Flow s:
$ ¥ $ ¥ $ €
(loan) (deposit) (bond) (alpha) (revenues) (bond)
¥ $ ¥ $ € $
(buy FW) (sell FW) (buy FW) (sell FW) (buy FW) (sell FW)
Japanese Bank Real Money Corporations
Japanese Bank
(dollar funding)
Real Money
(dollar hedges)
Corporations
(bargain hunting)
(dollar funding) (dollar hedges) (bargain hunting)
Japanese Bank Real Money Corporations
(dollar funding) (dollar hedges) (bargain hunting)
Japanese Bank Real Money Corporations
Time: t + 90 days (FW) Time: t + 90 days (FW)
Time: t (spot)
(dollar funding) (dollar hedges) (bargain hunting)
Japanese Bank Real Money Corporations
Time: t (spot)
Time: t + 90 days (FW)
spotFW
spotFW
(dollar funding) (dollar hedges) (bargain hunting)
Use € to service debt denominated in €.
↓ ↓ ↓
spotFW
spotFW
Use ¥ to pay back original ¥ deposit if it is not rolled over. Use ¥ to pay a return in ¥ to Japanese pensioners.
Time: t + 90 days (FW)
 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 13 
Figure A-2: FX Swap Links 
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
 
Figure A-3: FX Swap Terms 
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
Real Money
Banks
Market Makers
Cash Pools
Prime Funds
FXS FXS
FXS CD
(directly)
FXSFXS ←cash pool to real money ←
(indirectly via FX swap market makers)
←  prime fund to bank ← 
matched book →
speculative book →
CDCD
(indirectly via FX swap market makers)
Real Money Cash Pools
FXS                  
(3-mo.)
FXS       
(3-mo.)←cash pool to real money ←
(directly)
Market Makers
matched book → FXS          
(3-mo.)
FXS             
(3-mo.)
speculative book → FXS                 
(3-mo.)
CD                
(1-mo.)
Banks Prime Funds
CD          
(3-mo.) CD
←  prime fund to bank ← 
 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 14 
Figure A-4: FX Swaps without Prime Money Funds 
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
 
 
Figure A-5: Another Trillion, Another Percentage Point… 
Three-month FX-swap implied cost of dollar funding for yen-based borrowers, % 
 
Source: Bank of Japan 
Real Money Cash Pools
FXS                  
(3-mo.)
FXS       
(3-mo.)←cash pool to real money ←
Banks
FXS        
(3-mo.)
(indirectly via FX swap market makers)
Basel III/Volcker constraints.
Market Makers
matched book → FXS          
(3-mo.)
FXS             
(3-mo.)
FXS                 
(3-mo.)
Deposits 
(retail)spec. book →

 18 November 2016 
Global Money Notes #8 15 
References: 
  
Pozsar, Zoltan, “The Rise and Fall of the Shadow Banking System,”   
 Moody’s Economy.com (July, 2008)  
Wilmot, Jonathan, Sweeney, James, Klein, Matthias and Lantz, Carl, “Long Shadows,”   
 Credit Suisse (May, 2009)  
Pozsar, Zoltan, Adrian, Tobias, Ashcraft Adam and Boesky, Hayley, “Shadow Banking,”  
 FRBNY (July, 2010)   
Pozsar, Zoltan         
 “Institutional Cash Pools and the Triffin Dilemma of the US Banking System,” 
 IMF (August, 2011)  
Sweeney, James and Wilmot, Jonathan, “When Collateral Is King,”    
 Credit Suisse (March, 2012)  
Mehrling, Perry, Pozsar, Zoltan, Sweeney, James and Neilson, Dan   
 “Bagehot Was a Shadow Banker,”     
 INET (November, 2013)  
Sweeney, James, “Liquidity Required: Reshaping the Financial System,”  
 Credit Suisse (November, 2013)  
Pozsar, Zoltan, “Shadow Banking: The Money View,”    
 US Treasury (July, 2014)  
Pozsar, Zoltan, “How the Financial System Works,”     
 US Treasury (July, 2014)  
Pozsar, Zoltan, “A Macro View of Shadow Banking,”    
 INET Working Paper (January, 2015)  
Di Iasio, Giovanni, and Pozsar, Zoltan,       
 “A Model of Shadow Banking: Crises, Central Banks and Regulation,”  
 Banca d’Italia (May, 2015)  
Pozsar, Zoltan and Sweeney, James,      
 “Global Money Notes #1: The Money Market Under Government Control,”  
 Credit Suisse (May, 2015)  
Pozsar, Zoltan and Sweeney, James, “Global Money Notes #2: A Turbulent Exit,” 
 Credit Suisse (August, 2015)  
Pozsar, Zoltan and Sweeney, James, “Global Money Notes #3: Flying Blind,” 
 Credit Suisse (December, 2015)  
Pozsar, Zoltan, “Global Money Notes #4: A Tool of Their Own – The Foreign RRP Facility,”
 Credit Suisse (February, 2016)  
Pozsar, Zoltan, “Global Money Notes #5: What Excess Reserves,”    
 Credit Suisse (April, 2016)  
Pozsar, Zoltan, “Global Money Notes #6: QE, Basel III and the Fed’s New Target Rate,” 
 Credit Suisse (June, 2016)  
Pozsar, Zoltan “Global Money Notes #7: Japanese Banks, LIBOR and the FX Swap Lines,”   
 Credit Suisse (August, 2016)
  
 
 
 
GLOBAL FIXED INCOME AND ECONOMIC RESEARCH 
James Sweeney, Managing Director 
Head of Fixed Income and Economic Research 
+1 212 538 4648 
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com 
Dr. Neal Soss, Managing Director 
Vice Chairman, Fixed Income Research 
1 212 325 3335 
neal.soss@credit-suisse.com  
US / GLOBAL ECONOMICS AND STRATEGY 
James Sweeney 
Chief Economist 
+1 212 538 4648 
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com 
Xiao Cui 
+1 212 538 2511 
xiao.cui@credit-suisse.com 
Axel Lang 
+1 212 538 4530 
axel.lang@credit-suisse.com 
Zoltan Pozsar 
+1 212 538 3779  
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
Jeremy Schwartz 
+1 212 538 6419  
jeremy.schwartz@credit-suisse.com 
Sarah Smith 
+1 212 325-1022 
sarah.smith@credit-suisse.com 
Wenzhe Zhao 
+1 212 325 1798  
wenzhe.zhao@credit-suisse.com 
   
Praveen Korapaty 
Head of Interest Rate Strategy 
212 325 3427 
praveen.korapaty@credit-suisse.com 
Jonathan Cohn 
212 325 4923 
jonathan.cohn@credit-suisse.com 
William Marshall 
212 325 5584 
william.marshall@credit-suisse.com 
  
Jamie Nicholson-Leener 
Head of Latin America Credit  
+1 212  538 6769 
jamie.nicholson@credit-suisse.com 
Luis Serrano 
+1 212 325 3147 
luis.serrano@credit-suisse.com 
   
   
EUROPEAN ECONOMICS AND STRATEGY 
Neville Hill 
Head of European Economics & Strategy 
+44 20 7888 1334 
neville.hill@credit-suisse.com 
Anais Boussie 
+44 20 7883 9639 
anais.boussie@credit-suisse.com 
Peter Foley 
+44 20 7883 4349 
peter.foley@credit-suisse.com 
Sonali Punhani 
+44 20 7883 4297 
sonali.punhani@credit-suisse.com 
Veronika Roharova 
+44 20 7888 2403 
veronika.roharova@credit-suisse.com 
Giovanni Zanni 
+44 20 7888 6827 
giovanni.zanni@credit-suisse.com 
David Sneddon 
Head of Technical Analysis 
44 20 7888 7173 
david.sneddon@credit-suisse.com 
Christopher Hine 
212 538 5727 
christopher.hine@credit-suisse.com 
James Lim 
65 6212 3612 
lifeng.lim@credit-suisse.com    
William Porter  
Head of European Credit  
+44 20 7888 1207  
william.porter@credit-suisse.com  
Chiraag Somaia  
 +44 20 7888 2776 
chiraag.somaia@credit-suisse.com      
GLOBAL FX / EM ECONOMICS AND STRATEGY  
Shahab Jalinoos 
Head of Global FX Strategy 
212 325 5412 
shahab.jalinoos@credit-suisse.com 
 
Honglin Jiang 
44 20 7888 1501 
honglin.jiang@credit-suisse.com 
Trang Thuy Le 
+852 2101 7426 
trangthuy.le@credit-suisse.com 
 
Alvise Marino 
212 325 5911 
alvise.marino@credit-suisse.com 
 
Bhaveer Shah 
44 20 7883 1449 
bhaveer.shah@credit-suisse.com 
Kasper Bartholdy 
Head of Global EM Strategy 
+44 20 7883 4907 
kasper.bartholdy@credit-suisse.com 
Ashish Agrawal 
+65 6212 3405 
ashish.agrawal@credit-suisse.com 
Daniel Chodos 
+1 212 325 7708 
daniel.chodos@credit-suisse.com  
Nimrod Mevorach 
+44 20 7888 1257 
nimrod.mevorach@credit-suisse.com 
Martin Yu 
+65 6212 3448 
martin.yu@credit-suisse.com 
Berna Bayazitoglu 
Head of EEMEA Economics 
+44 20 7883 3431 
berna.bayazitoglu@credit-suisse.com 
Alexey Pogorelov 
+44 20 7883 0396 
alexey.pogorelov@credit-suisse.com 
Carlos Teixeira 
+27 11 012 8054 
carlos.teixeira@credit-suisse.com  
 
Alonso Cervera 
Head of Latin America Economics 
+52 55 5283 3845 
alonso.cervera@credit-suisse.com 
Juan Lorenzo Maldonado 
+1 212 325 4245 
juanlorenzo.maldonado@credit-suisse.com  
Casey Reckman 
+1 212 325 5570 
casey.reckman@credit-suisse.com 
Alberto Rojas 
+52 55 5283 8975 
alberto.rojas@credit-suisse.com 
 
Nilson Teixeira 
Head of Brazil Economics 
+55 11 3701 6288 
nilson.teixeira@credit-suisse.com 
Paulo Coutinho 
+55 11 3701-6353 
paulo.coutinho@credit-suisse.com 
Iana Ferrao 
+55 11 3701 6345 
iana.ferrao@credit-suisse.com 
Leonardo Fonseca 
+55 11 3701 6348 
leonardo.fonseca@credit-suisse.com 
Lucas Vilela 
+55 11 3701-6352 
lucas.vilela @credit-suisse.com 
 
ASIA PACIFIC DIVISION 
Ray Farris, Managing Director 
Head of Fixed Income Research and Economics, Asia Pacific Division 
+65 6212 3412 
ray.farris@credit-suisse.com 
EMERGING ASIA ECONOMICS 
Dr. Santitarn Sathirathai 
Head of Emerging Asia Economics 
+65 6212 5675 
santitarn.sathirathai@credit-suisse.com  
Vincent Chan 
Head of China Macro 
+852 2101 6568 
vincent.chan@credit-suisse.com 
Deepali Bhargava 
+65 6212 5699 
deepali.bhargava@credit-suisse.com  
Weishen Deng 
+852 2101 7162 
weishen.deng@credit-suisse.com 
Christiaan Tuntono 
+852 2101 7409 
christiaan.tuntono@credit-suisse.com  
Michael Wan 
+65 6212 3418 
michael.wan@credit-suisse.com     
JAPAN ECONOMICS  
Hiromichi Shirakawa 
Head of Japan Economics 
+81 3 4550 7117 
hiromichi.shirakawa@credit-suisse.com 
Takashi Shiono 
+81 3 4550 7189 
takashi.shiono@credit-suisse.com   
 
 
  
 
 
Disclosure Appendix 
Analyst Certification  
I, Zoltan Pozsar, certify that (1) the views expressed in this report accurately reflect my personal views about all of the s ubject companies and 
securities and (2) no part of my compensation was, is or will be directly or indirectly r elated to the specific recommendations or views expressed in 
this report. 
Important Disclosures  
Credit Suisse's policy is only to publish investment research that is impartial, independent, clear, fair and not misleading.  For more detail, please 
refer to Credit Suisse's Policies for Managing Conflicts of Interest in connection with Investment Research: http://www.csfb.com/research-and-
analytics/disclaimer/managing_conflicts_disclaimer.html .  
Credit Suisse's policy is to publish research reports as it deems appropriate, based on developments with the subject issuer,  the sector or the market 
that may have a material impact on the research views or opinions stated herein. 
The analyst(s) involved in the preparation of this research report received compensation that is based upon various factors, including Credit Suisse's 
total revenues, a portion of which are generated by Credit Suisse's Investment Banking and Fixed Income Divisions. 
Credit Suisse may trade as principal in the securities or derivatives of the issuers that are the subject of this report.  
At any point in time, Credit Suisse is likely to have significant holdings in the securities mentioned in this report. 
As at the date of this report, Credit Suisse acts as a market maker or liquidity provider in the debt securities of the subje ct issuer(s) mentioned in this 
report. 
For important disclosure information on securities recommended in this report, p lease visit the website at https://rave.credit-
suisse.com/disclosures/view/fixedincome or call +1-212-538-7625.  
For the history of trade ideas suggested by the Fixed Income Resear ch department over the previous 12 months, please view the document at 
https://plus.credit-suisse.com/r/aaCzfz . Credit Suisse clients with access to the Locus website may refer to http://www.credit-suisse.com/locus . For 
the history of trade ideas suggested by Emerging Markets Strategy Research, please see the latest Emerging Markets Fixed Income Views report on 
Credit Suisse PLUS .  
For the history of recommendations provided by Technical Analysis, please visit the website at https://plus.credit-
suisse.com/ECP_S/app/container.html#loc=/MENU_FI_ECON_TECHNICAL_ANALYSIS .  
Credit Suisse does not provide any tax advice. Any statement herein regarding any US federal tax is not intended or written t o be used, and cannot 
be used, by any taxpayer for the purposes of avoiding any penalties. 
For a history of recommendations for the financial instrument(s) featured in this report, disseminated within the past 12 mon ths, please refer to 
https://rave.credit-suisse.com/disclosures/view/reportfi?i=260130&v=-70lfnz8bw789bc7s5ap8hw441 .  
This research report is authored by: 
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC .................................................................................................................................................... Zoltan Pozsar 
 
  
 
 
 
This report is produced by subsidiaries and affiliates of Credit Suisse operating under its Global Markets Division. For more information on our structure, please use the following link: https://www.credit-suisse.com/who-we-are 
This report may contain material that is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country or other jurisdiction where such 
distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation or which would subject Credit Suisse or its affiliates ("CS") to any registration or licensing requirement within such jurisdiction. All material 
presented in this report, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under copyright to CS. None of the material, nor its content, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted to, copied or distributed to any other 
party, without the prior express written permission of CS. All trademarks, service marks and logos used in this report are trademarks or service marks or registered trademarks or service marks of CS or its affiliates.The 
information, tools and material presented in this report are provided to you for information purposes only and are not to be used or considered as an offer or the solicitation of an offer to sell or to buy or subscribe for securities 
or other financial instruments. CS may not have taken any steps to ensure that the securities referred to in this report are suitable for any particular investor. CS will not treat recipients of this report as its customers by virtue of 
their receiving this report. The investments and services contained or referred to in this report may not be suitable for you and it is recommended that you consult an independent investment advisor if you are in doubt about 
such investments or investment services. Nothing in this report constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a representation that any investment or strategy is suitable or appropriate to your individual 
circumstances, or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation to you. CS does not advise on the tax consequences of investments and you are advised to contact an independent tax adviser. Please note in particular 
that the bases and levels of taxation may change. Information and opinions presented in this report have been obtained or derived from sources believed by CS to be reliable, but CS makes no representation as to their 
accuracy or completeness. CS accepts no liability for loss arising from the use of the material presented in this report, except that this exclusion of liability does not apply to the extent that such liability arises under specific 
statutes or regulations applicable to CS. This report is not to be relied upon in substitution for the exercise of independent judgment. CS may have issued, and may in the future issue, other communications that are 
inconsistent with, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in this report. Those communications reflect the different assumptions, views and analytical methods of the analysts who prepared them and 
CS is under no obligation to ensure that such other communications are brought to the attention of any recipient of this report. Some investments referred to in this report will be offered solely by a single entity and in the case 
of some investments solely by CS, or an associate of CS or CS may be the only market maker in such investments. Past performance should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of future performance, and no 
representation or warranty, express or implied, is made regarding future performance. Information, opinions and estimates contained in this report reflect a judgment at its original date of publication by CS and are subject to 
change without notice. The price, value of and income from any of the securities or financial instruments mentioned in this report can fall as well as rise. The value of securities and financial instruments is subject to exchange 
rate fluctuation that may have a positive or adverse effect on the price or income of such securities or financial instruments. Investors in securities such as ADR's, the values of which are influenced by currency volatility, 
effectively assume this risk. Structured securities are complex instruments, typically involve a high degree of risk and are intended for sale only to sophisticated investors who are capable of understanding and assuming the 
risks involved. The market value of any structured security may be affected by changes in economic, financial and political factors (including, but not limited to, spot and forward interest and exchange rates), time to maturity, 
market conditions and volatility, and the credit quality of any issuer or reference issuer. Any investor interested in purchasing a structured product should conduct their own investigation and analysis of the product and consult 
with their own professional advisers as to the risks involved in making such a purchase. Some investments discussed in this report may have a high level of volatility. High volatility investments may experience sudden and 
large falls in their value causing losses when that investment is realised. Those losses may equal your original investment. Indeed, in the case of some investments the potential losses may exceed the amount of initial 
investment and, in such circumstances, you may be required to pay more money to support those losses. Income yields from investments may fluctuate and, in consequence, initial capital paid to make the investment may 
be used as part of that income yield. Some investments may not be readily realisable and it may be difficult to sell or realise those investments, similarly it may prove difficult for you to obtain reliable information about the 
value, or risks, to which such an investment is exposed. This report may provide the addresses of, or contain hyperlinks to, websites. Except to the extent to which the report refers to website material of CS, CS has not 
reviewed any such site and takes no responsibility for the content contained therein. Such address or hyperlink (including addresses or hyperlinks to CS's own website material) is provided solely for your convenience and 
information and the content of any such website does not in any way form part of this document. Accessing such website or following such link through this report or CS's website shall be at your own risk. 
This report is issued and distributed in European Union (except Switzerland): by Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, One Cabot Square, London E14 4QJ, England, which is authorised by the Prudential Regulation 
Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. Germany: Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited Niederlassung Frankfurt am Main regulated by the Bundesanstalt fuer 
Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht ("BaFin"). United States and Canada: Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC; Switzerland: Credit Suisse AG; Brazil: Banco de Investimentos Credit Suisse (Brasil) S.A or its affiliates; Mexico: 
Banco Credit Suisse (México), S.A. (transactions related to the securities mentioned in this report will only be effected in compliance with applicable regulation); Japan: by Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Limited, Financial 
Instruments Firm, Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau ( Kinsho) No. 66, a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Financial Futures Association of Japan, Japan Investment Advisers Association, 
Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association; Hong Kong: Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited; Australia: Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited; Thailand: Credit Suisse Securities (Thailand) Limited, regulated by the 
Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Thailand, having registered address at 990 Abdulrahim Place, 27th Floor, Unit 2701, Rama IV Road, Silom, Bangrak, Bangkok10500, Thailand, Tel. +66 2614 6000; 
Malaysia: Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, Credit Suisse AG, Singapore Branch; India: Credit Suisse Securities (India) Private Limited (CIN no.U67120MH1996PTC104392) regulated by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India as Research Analyst (registration no. INH 000001030) and as Stock Broker (registration no. INB230970637; INF230970637; INB010970631; INF010970631), having registered address at 9th Floor, 
Ceejay House, Dr.A.B. Road, Worli, Mumbai - 18, India, T- +91-22 6777 3777; South Korea: Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, Seoul Branch; Taiwan: Credit Suisse AG Taipei Securities Branch; Indonesia: PT 
Credit Suisse Securities Indonesia;  Philippines:  Credit Suisse Securities (Philippines ) Inc., and elsewhere in the world by the relevant authorised affiliate of the above.  
Additional Regional Disclaimers 
Hong Kong: Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited ("CSHK") is licensed and regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong under the laws of Hong Kong, which differ from Australian laws. CSHKL does 
not hold an Australian financial services licence (AFSL) and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act 2001 (the Act) under Class Order 03/1103 published by the ASIC in respect of financial 
services provided to Australian wholesale clients (within the meaning of section 761G of the Act). Research on Taiwanese securities produced by Credit Suisse AG, Taipei Securities Branch has been prepared by a 
registered Senior Business Person.  
Malaysia: Research provided to residents of Malaysia is authorised by the Head of Research for Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, to whom they should direct any queries on +603 2723 2020.  
Singapore: This report has been prepared and issued for distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited investors and expert investors (each as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations) only, and is 
also distributed by Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch to overseas investors (as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations). By virtue of your status as an institutional investor, accredited investor, expert investor or 
overseas investor, Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch is exempted from complying with certain compliance requirements under the Financial Advisers Act, Chapter 110 of Singapore (the "FAA"), the Financial Advisers 
Regulations and the relevant Notices and Guidelines issued thereunder, in respect of any financial advisory service which Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch may provide to you.  
UAE: This information is being distributed by Credit Suisse AG (DIFC Branch), duly licensed and regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (“DFSA”). Related financial services or products are only made available 
to Professional Clients or Market Counterparties, as defined by the DFSA, and are not intended for any other persons. Credit Suisse AG (DIFC Branch) is located on Level 9 East, The Gate Building, DIFC, Dubai, United 
Arab Emirates.  
EU: This report has been produced by subsidiaries and affiliates of Credit Suisse operating under its Global Markets Division  
This research may not conform to Canadian disclosure requirements.  
In jurisdictions where CS is not already registered or licensed to trade in securities, transactions will only be effected in accordance with applicable securities legislation, which will vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may 
require that the trade be made in accordance with applicable exemptions from registration or licensing requirements. Non-US customers wishing to effect a transaction should contact a CS entity in their local jurisdiction 
unless governing law permits otherwise. US customers wishing to effect a transaction should do so only by contacting a representative at Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC in the US.  
Please note that this research was originally prepared and issued by CS for distribution to their market professional and institutional investor customers. Recipients who are not market professional or institutional investor 
customers of CS should seek the advice of their independent financial advisor prior to taking any investment decision based on this report or for any necessary explanation of its contents. This research may relate to 
investments or services of a person outside of the UK or to other matters which are not authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation 
Authority or in respect of which the protections of the Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct Authority for private customers and/or the UK compensation scheme may not be available, and further details as to 
where this may be the case are available upon request in respect of this report.  
CS may provide various services to US municipal entities or obligated persons ("municipalities"), including suggesting individual transactions or trades and entering into such transactions. Any services CS provides to 
municipalities are not viewed as "advice" within the meaning of Section 975 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. CS is providing any such services and related information solely on an arm's 
length basis and not as an advisor or fiduciary to the municipality. In connection with the provision of the any such services,  there is no agreement, direct or indirect, between any municipality (including the 
officials,management, employees or agents thereof) and CS for CS to provide advice to the municipality. Municipalities should consult with their financial, accounting and legal advisors regarding any such services provided 
by CS. In addition, CS is not acting for direct or indirect compensation to solicit the municipality on behalf of an unaffiliated broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, or investment adviser for the purpose of 
obtaining or retaining an engagement by the municipality for or in connection with Municipal Financial Products, the issuance of municipal securities, or of an investment adviser to provide investment advisory services to or on 
behalf of the municipality. If this report is being distributed by a financial institution other than Credit Suisse AG, or its affiliates, that financial institution is solely responsible for distribution. Clients of that institution should contact 
that institution to effect a transaction in the securities mentioned in this report or require further information. This report does not constitute investment advice by Credit Suisse to the clients of the distributing financial institution, 
and neither Credit Suisse AG, its affiliates, and their respective officers, directors and employees accept any liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from their use of this report or its content. Principal is 
not guaranteed. Commission is the commission rate or the amount agreed with a customer when setting up an account or at any time after that.  
Copyright © 2016 CREDIT SUISSE AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
Investment principal on bonds can be eroded depending on sale price or market price. In addition, there are bonds on which in vestment principal can 
be eroded due to changes in redemption amounts. Care is required when investing in such instruments.  
When you purchase non-listed Japanese fixed income securities (Japanese government bonds, Japanese municipal bonds, Japanese government guaranteed bonds, Japanese corporate bonds) from CS as a seller, you 
will be requested to pay the purchase price only.  
 