 
Institutional Cash Pools and the                        
Triffin Dilemma of the U.S. Banking System 
Zoltan Pozsar 
 
WP/11/190
  
 
© 2011 International Monetary Fund WP/11/190  
IMF Working Paper 
Research Department  
Institutional Cash Pools and the Triffin Dilemma of the U.S. Banking System1  
Prepared by Zoltan Pozsar  
Authorized for distribution by Stijn Claessens   
August 2011 
Abstract 
Through the profiling of institutional cash pools, this paper explains the rise of the "shadow" 
banking system from a demand-side perspective. Explaining the rise of shadow banking from 
this angle paints a very different picture than the supply-side angle that views it as a story of 
banks’ funding preferences and arbitrage. Institutional cash pools prefer to avoid too much 
unsecured exposure to banks even through insured deposits. Short-term government 
guaranteed securities are the next best choice, but their supply is insufficient. The shadow 
banking system arose to fill this vacuum. One way to manage the size of the shadow banking 
system is by adopting the supply management of Treasury bills as a macroprudential tool. 
JEL Classification Numbers: E4; G2 
Keywords: institutional cash pools; shadow banking; Treasury bills; money; macroprudential 
Author’s E-Mail Address: ZPozsar@imf.org 
 
                                                
 
1I am grateful to Elena Liapkova for her encouragement to persevere and to search for the bigger picture; Lena, this 
paper is for you. The paper benefitted from discussions with James Aitken, Péter Benczúr, Olivier Blanchard,                
Stijn Claessens, Júlia Király, Matt King, Michael King, Richhild Moessner, Perry Mehrling, Grace Li,                         
Rebecca McCaughrin, Sami Mesrour, Krisztián Orbán, Phil Prince, Lev Ratnovski, Reimo Juks, Manmohan Singh, 
James Sweeney, Márta Szegö, Elöd Takáts, Tamás Vojnits, Eric Van Wetering, and seminar participants at the 
Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the Bank of International Settlements, the U.K.’s Independent Commission 
on Banking, the International Monetary Fund, the National Bank of Hungary, and the Sveriges Riksbank. 
 
This Working Paper should not be reported as representing the views of the IMF. 
The views expressed in this Working Paper are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily 
represent those of the IMF or IMF policy. Working Papers describe research in progress by the 
author(s) and are published to elicit comments and to further debate. 
 2 
 
 Contents Page 
I. Introduction ............................................................................................................................3 
II. What Are Institutional Cash Pools? ......................................................................................4 
III. Profiling Institutional Cash Pools ........................................................................................6 
IV. Cash Equivalents and Monetary Aggregates .....................................................................11 
V. The Triffin Dilemma of the U.S. Banking System .............................................................17 
VI. Policy Alternatives for Dealing With Institutional Cash Pools .........................................21 
VII. Conclusions ......................................................................................................................24  
Figure 
1. The Secular Rise of Institutional Cash Pools .......................................................................6 
2. The Average Size of Institutional Cash Pools in 2007 ........................................................7 
3. Institutional Cash Pools’ Priortized Investment Objectives ................................................8 
4. Not Enough Banks to Source Safety for Cash Pools ...........................................................8 
5. Not Enough Short-Term Government-Guaranteed Instruments ........................................10 
6. Institutional Treasurers Never Put All Their Eggs in One Basket .....................................12 
7. Broad Money and Its Components (Stacked) ....................................................................14 
8. The Preferred Habitat of Institutional Cash Pools is in Non-M2 Types of Money ...........15 
9. Filling the Vacuum of Short-Term Government Guaranteed Debt ...................................17 
10. Broad Money and Its Components (Unstacked) ................................................................19 
11. Has the Effectiveness of Deposit Insurance Been Eroded” ...............................................20 
 
Appendix Figure 
1. Non-Financial Corporations’ Holdings of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Totals .................26 
2. High Net-Worth Individuals ..............................................................................................26 
3. Long-Term Mutual Funds’ Holdings of Cash and Cash Equivalents ................................27 
4. Securities Lenders’ Holdings of Cash and Cash Equivalents ............................................27 
5. Cash and Cash Equivalents as a Share of Total Assets .....................................................28 
6. Non-Financial Corporations’ Holdings of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Averages ...........28 
7. Top Holdings of Cash and Cash Equivalent ......................................................................29 
8. The Number of FDIC Insured Banks in the U.S. ...............................................................29 
9. Counterparty Diversification for Cash Investing is Getting Harder and Harder ...............30 
10. Yield Difference Between 3-month CDs and Other Instruments ......................................30 
11. Securities Lenders’ Cash Collateral Reinvestment Accounts’ Composition .....................31 
12. The Portfolio Allocation of the Rest of the World’s Short-Term Dollar Balances ...........32 
13. The Frequency of Banking Crises ......................................................................................32 
14. Still Not Enough Banks to Source Safety for Cash Pools .................................................33 
References ................................................................................................................................34 
 3 
I.   INTRODUCTION 
This paper aims to answer the question why the bulk of institutional cash pools are not 
invested directly in deposits in the traditional banking system but in deposit alternatives and 
primarily in the so-called “shadow” banking system. It analyzes the portfolio allocation 
rationale of institutional cash pools with the aim to better understand the systemic risks 
inherent in their allocations presently. 
 
To the best of the author’s knowledge, this paper is the first to study the phenomenon of 
institutional cash pools and to ask why wholesale funding markets have grown, what the 
growing presence of institutional cash pools means for financial stability, and whether, in the 
context of the rise of institutional cash pools, the effectiveness of an official safety net for 
banks and deposits only has been eroding over time. 
 
The paper builds on other analyses that link the recent financial crisis to demand for safe 
assets (see Acharya and Schnabl
 (2009), Caballero (2010), and Bernanke (2011)). According 
to these views, the financial crisis was driven by an insatiable demand from the rest of the 
world for safe, high-quality (that is, AAA) debt instruments, which the U.S. financial system 
produced through the securitization of lower-quality ones. 
 
This paper adds two new dimensions to these views. First, it differentiates between demand 
for long-term AAA assets (the focus of the a bove papers) and short-term AAA assets (the 
focus of the present paper). 
 
Second, it expands the discussion of the demand for AAA assets from fo reign central banks’ 
demand for long-term AAA assets, to U.S. domiciled, but globally active non-financial 
corporations’ and U.S. domiciled institutional investors’ demand for short-term AAA assets. 
 
Throughout this paper, the demand for short-term AAA assets is referred to as the demand 
for insured deposit alternatives (see Gorton
 (2010), Stein (2010) and Krishnamurthy and 
Vissing-Jorgensen (2010)), and demand for them is explained by the secular rise of 
institutional cash pools. 
 
In the context of the global savings glut, institutional cash pools’ demand for short-term 
AAA assets can be viewed as the flipside of foreign central banks’ demand for long-term 
AAA assets. In turn, cash pools’ demand for short-term AAA assets is the principal source of 
marginal demand for maturity transformation in the financial system. 
 
The paper has five conclusions. First, insured deposit alternatives dominate institutional cash 
pools’ investment portfolios relative to deposits. The principal reason for this is not search 
for yield, but search for principal safety and liquidity. 
 
Second, between 2003 and 2008, institutional cash pools’ demand for insured deposit 
alternatives exceeded the outstanding amount of short-term government guaranteed 
instruments not held by foreign official investors by a cumulative of at least $1.5 trillion; the 
“shadow” banking system rose to fill this gap. From this perspective, the rise of “shadow” 
banking has an under-appreciated demand-side dimension to it. 
 4 
 
Third, institutional cash pools’ preferred habitat is not deposits, but insured deposit 
alternatives. This is to say that institutional cash pools’ money demand is satisfied by non-
M2 types of money. This is because institutional cash pools’ money demand is not for 
transaction purposes, but for liquidity and collateral management as well as investing 
purposes, which aren’t best met by deposits, but by Treasury bills and repos. 
 
Fourth, the larger institutional cash pools and their demand for insured deposit alternatives 
grows relative to the supply of short-term government guaranteed instruments in the financial 
system, the less effective deposit insurance and lender of last resort access for banks only will 
be as stabilizing forces in times of crises. 
 
Fifth, an elegant way to solve the financial system’s fragility due to the rise of institutional 
cash pools and “shadow” banking would be to issue more Treasury bills and to explicitly 
incorporate the supply management of bills into the macroprudential tool kit. While not 
without costs or alternatives, this approach is less troublesome and complicated than the 
alternative of intense real-time monitoring and regulation of the shadow banking system. 
 
The paper has six remaining sections. Section II measures the size of institutional cash pools 
in the non-financial corporate sector in the U.S. and globally, and among institutional 
investors in the U.S. Section III discusses the philosophy of how institutional cash pools 
attain security for their funds. Section IV discusses the portfolio allocation details of 
institutional cash pools and—in light of these details—highlights the gap between the 
accounting concept of cash equivalents and the scope of traditional monetary aggregates. 
Section V discusses the U.S. banking system’s Triffin dilemma. Section VI provides policy 
recommendations and asks whether Basel III, higher deposit insurance limits and the repeal 
of Regulation Q will adequately deal with the secular rise of institutional cash pools and the 
systemic risks their safety preferences engender. Finally, Section VII concludes with offering 
an alternative, “non-arbitrage” explanation of the raison d’etre of the “shadow” banking 
system, and accordingly, proposes to rename it the market-based
 financial system.2 
 
II.   WHAT ARE INSTITUTIONAL CASH POOLS? 
The term institutional cash pool refers to large, centrally managed, short-term cash balances 
of global non-financial corporations and institutional investors such as asset managers, 
securities lenders and pension funds (see Pozsar (2011)). Institutional cash pools have 
become increasingly prominent since the 1990s, driven by three secular developments in the 
non-financial corporate and institutional investor landscapes: 
 
                                                
 
2Also see Chapter 1 of the Bank of Canada’s June 2011 Financial System Review: Emerging from the Shadows: 
Market-Based Financing in Canada. 
 5 
First, the rise of globalization and the related rise of (i) large, global corporations and 
centrally managed corporate cash pools3, and (ii) inequality, whereby an increasingly small 
core of the global population controls an increasingly large share of incomes and wealth.4 
 
Second, the rise of asset management, and the related rise of (i) the centralized liquidity 
management of mutual funds, separate accounts and hedge funds within fund complexes, and 
(ii) securities lending, and the related rise of cash collateral reinvestment pools. 
 
Third, the rise of derivatives-based investment styles—such as futures-based duration 
positioning, liability-driven investing and synthetic ETFs—which involve overlaying 
derivatives (such as futures and total return swaps) onto separately managed cash pools. 
 
The common features of institutional cash pools are that they are large (typically at least $1 
billion in size) and centrally managed. The central management of cash pools refers to the 
aggregation (or pooling) of cash balances from all subsidiaries worldwide in the case of 
global corporations, or all funds (including mutual and hedge funds and separate accounts) in 
the case of asset managers. Furthermore, the investment decisions that pertain to pooled 
balances are performed by a single decision maker (typically a treasurer) and through a fund 
that is a single legal person, but one that manages the cash balances of many legal persons. 
 
Based on time series data available on (i) the cash holdings of S&P500 constituents, (ii) the 
holdings of liquid assets by all long-term mutual funds and (iii) the balances in securities 
lenders’ cash collateral reinvestment accounts, the volume of institutional cash pools rose 
from $100 billion in 1990 to over $2.2 trillion at their peak in 2007; the volume of 
institutional cash pools stood at $1.9 trillion during the fourth quarter of 2010.
5 
 
These estimates are conservative, however, as due to data limitations, they do not include 
cash pools associated with (v) wealthy individuals; (vi) endowments; (vii) separate accounts, 
(viii) hedge funds, (ix) derivatives-based investment strategies, and (x) insurance companies 
and pension funds. Industry surveys and discussions with numerous market participants 
suggest that a conservative estimate of these additional types of cash pools would raise the 
2007 and 2010 totals to $3.8 and $3.4 trillion, respectively (see Figure 1; for additional data 
see Appendix, Figures A1-A4).6 Note that money funds are not included as institutional cash 
pools; institutional cash pools are investors in money funds but are not funds themselves. 
                                                 
3Parallel to the globalization of corporations and the pooling of their globally earned cash balances, cash and 
cash equivalents as a share of corporate assets have also increased in recent decades (see Appendix, Figure A5 
and Stulz, et al (1998) and Holmström and Tirole (2000)). 
4Since the cash balances of high net worth individuals are typically managed out of family offices, the paper 
considers them as institutional cash pools. 
5The data sources used to compile these estimates include CapitalIQ, ICI and RMA. 
6The additional data sources used to compile these estimates include The Economist, Credit Suisse, BIS 
Working Papers No 343, and discussions with numerous market participants and asset managers. For the 
purposes of this paper, only privately-owned institutional cash pools are considered. Those of the foreign 
official sector, oil exporters and state and local governments in the U.S. are not. 
 6 
 
 
 
To understand the rationale behind the portfolio allocation of institutional cash pools, and 
why and how their secular rise in the financial ecosystem poses risks to financial stability, the 
paper next examines (i) the average size of institutional cash pools and their investment 
preferences, (ii) how the parameters of the official safety net cast around cash investors and 
(iii) the outstanding volume of short-term government guaranteed instruments have evolved 
relative to the aggregate volume of institutional cash pools over time. 
 
III.   PROFILING INSTITUTIONAL CASH POOLS 
Institutional cash pools are large, with their sizes ranging from $1 billion to in some cases 
over $100 billion. For example, when the aggregate volume of institutional cash pools 
peaked in 2007, the cash pools associated with the most cash-rich corporations averaged $15 
billion (see Appendix, Figures A6 and A7)7; the cash pools associated with long-term mutual 
funds averaged $20 billion per large asset manager; and cash collateral associated with 
securities lending programs averaged $75 billion per securities lender (see Figure 2).8 With 
the increase in corporate liquidity and the consolidation of the asset management and 
                                                 
7The names of S&P500 constituents with the 20 largest cash pools in 2010 are provided in the left-hand panel of 
Figure 7A, while the right-hand panel provides a rolling (and anonymous) list of the top 20 pools over time. The 
color codes indicate the evolution of the size of corporate cash pools over time. 
8These averages are rough estimates and were derived by dividing the 2007 aggregates by 20 in the case of 
long-term mutual funds’ cash pools (to reflect the number of large asset managers in the U.S. at the time); and 
22 in the case of securities lenders cash collateral pools (to reflect the actual number of securities lenders that 
regularly report their activities and which form the basis of deriving the aggregate volume of securities lending. 
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Figure 1: The Secular Rise of  Institutional Cash Pools
$ trillions
Institutional cash pools (based on available data) Institutional cash pools (estimate of total volume)
Source: CapitalIQ, RMA, ICI, BIS, The Economist, Pozsar (2011)
 7 
securities lending complexes since the financial crisis, the average size of associated 
institutional cash pools has likely grown further.9 In addition, according to one estimate, the 
regulated migration of OTC derivatives to CCPs will add $200 billion to wholesale cash 
pools (see Singh (2011b)). 
 
 
 
The Association of Finance Professionals’ annual Liquidity Surveys
 provide a wealth of 
information for understanding the investment preferences of the average institutional cash 
pool. The surveys provide an overview of the cash management policies and objectives of 
nearly 340 institutions covering non-financial corporations, financial institutions (such as 
securities lenders) and government organizations (such as the GSEs). Of this universe, this 
paper uses responses only from institutions with annual revenues of over $1 billion (43% of 
respondents), which are used to proxy the investment preferences of institutional cash pools. 
 
According to these surveys, over 90% of institutional cash pools are subject to written cash 
investment policies, which govern the investment styles and fiduciary responsibilities of their 
managers. In order of priority, the objectives of these policies are: (i) safety of principal; (ii) 
liquidity; and (iii) yield (see Figure 3). 
 
                                                
 
9See for example “BGI marks milestone for BlackRock”, Financial Times, June 12, 2009 and the chart on the 
top five asset managers in “Asset management: Conga contemplation”, Financial Times, May 2, 2011. 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Global Corporations        
[per Corporate Treasury]
Mutual Funds                
[per Mutual Fund Complex]
Securities Lenders         
[per Securities Lender]
Figure 2: The Average Size of Institutional Cash Pools in 2007
$ billions
Source: CapitalIQ, RMA, ICI, Pozsar (2011)
 8 
 
 
Given their strong preferences for safety, institutional cash pools are not particularly well fit 
to be intermediated through the traditional, deposit-funded banking system. This is because 
there are not enough banks to spread the average institutional cash pool across in insured, 
$100,000 increments—the pre-crisis deposit insurance limit (see Figure 4). This problem has 
been present for asset managers, securities lenders and the ten most cash-rich S&P500 
constituents since the early 1990s, and has become increasingly pressing for the one hundred 
most cash rich S&P500 constituents since 2000 as their cash balances kept on growing. 
 
 
 
Over time, the problem of the growing size of institutional cash pools was further 
complicated by (i) unchanged deposit insurance limits of $100,000 since 1980
10; and (ii) the 
                                                 
10From A Brief History of Deposit Insurance: “There were three increases in the insurance coverage limit 
during the years 1942 to 1970. Coverage was raised from $5,000 to $10,000 in 1950, to $15,000 in 1966, and to 
$20,000 in 1969. (p45) […] In 1974, deposit insurance coverage was increased from $20,000 to $40,000, and to 
$100,000 for deposits held by states and political subdivisions. In 1980, despite the reservations of the FDIC, 
deposit insurance coverage for all accounts was increased to $100,000 by provisions of the Depository 
Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act.” 
Figure 3: Institutional Cash Pools' Prioritized Investment Objectives
Prioritized Order of Short-Term Investment Objectives Institutions with Cash Investment Policies
% of all institutions with cash investment policies (over 75% of institutions). % of institutions with revenues of over $1 billi on.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
S a f e t y - 6 78 08 67 48 0 9 29 19 59 48 68 9
Liquidity - 17 18 14 25 16
Yield - 16 2 - 1 4
Source: Annual AFP Liquidity Surveys 2006-2011, Pozsar (2011)
-700
-600
-500
-400
-300
-200
-100
0
100
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Figure 4: Not Enough Banks to Source Safety for Cash Pools                          
# of  additional banks needed to get safety through insured, $100,000 deposits, thousands
S&P500 (top 10 average) S&P500 (top 100 average) Asset managers (average) Securities lenders (average)
Source: CapitalIQ, RMA, ICI, FDIC, Pozsar (2011)
 9 
consolidation of the banking sector, which left institutional cash pools with fewer and fewer 
destinations in fixed, $100,000 increments, and hence, fewer and fewer options for 
counterparty diversification for purposes of cash investing in general. Between 1990 and 
2010, the number of FDIC-insured banks shrank from 15,000 banks to 8,000, and, at the 
same time, the top ten banks’ share of system assets trebled, from around 20% to 55% (see 
Appendix, Figures A8 and A9). 
 
In reality, the deficit of the number of banks that institutional cash pools could be spread 
across is even bigger than what is shown in Figure 4, as (i) only the subset of banks that need 
funding at any given point in time are interested in cash pools’ bids for deposits; (ii) 
corporate and institutional treasurers are bound by consolidated, notional, unsecured 
exposure limits (set by risk managers) to banks, taking into account all products and services 
(such as derivatives, hedges and credit lines) provided by any given bank; and (iii) tax and 
operational considerations—such as the central management of overseas cash balances from 
low-tax jurisdictions such as Ireland—that preclude cash balances from being repatriated and 
deposited with banks. 
 
As the limits of slicing and spreading growing institutional cash pools in fixed, insured 
increments across a shrinking number of banks and against binding unsecured exposure 
limits were reached, institutional cash pools faced two alternatives: (i) holding uninsured 
deposits and becoming uninsured, unsecured creditors to banks, or (ii) investing in insured 
deposit alternatives—that is, safe, short-term and liquid instruments—such as short-term 
(ii/a) government guaranteed instruments or (ii/b) a range of privately guaranteed instruments 
(secured instruments and money funds) issued by the so-called “shadow” banking system. 
 
With only a limited appetite for direct, unsecured exposures to banks through uninsured 
deposits, however, institutional cash pools opted for the second set of alternatives. Relative to 
the aggregate volume of institutional cash pools, however, there was an insufficient supply of 
short-term government-guaranteed instruments to serve as insured deposit alternatives. This 
shortage amounted to $1.1, $1.6 and $1.6 trillion in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, and 
has been exacerbated by increasing foreign official holdings of short-term government 
guaranteed instruments since 2000 (see Figure 5).
11 
                                                 
11Note that the actual deficit was even deeper, as the below exercise does not account for demand from (i) banks 
(to meet their regulatory requirements for liquid assets) and (ii) state and local government investment pools in 
the U.S. These sources of demand for short-term government guaranteed instruments are excluded due to data 
limitations. A detailed breakdown of the ownership of short and long-term government and agency securities by 
institutional owners’ type is presently not available. 
 10 
 
 
With a shortage of short-term government-guaranteed instruments, institutional cash pools 
next gravitated—almost by default—toward the other alternative of privately guaranteed 
instruments, fueling the secular rise of the non-bank-to-bank subset of wholesale funding 
markets and the “shadow” banking system in general.12  
 
From a bird’s-eye view, institutional cash pools substituted for the vacuum of short-term 
government-guaranteed instruments and insured deposits (which are ultimately sovereign 
claims) through two alternatives. These were (i) the direct holdings of secured, privately 
insured money market instruments—such as repurchase agreements and asset-backed 
commercial paper—where collateral provided safety and substituted for government 
guarantees; and (ii) the indirect holdings of primarily unsecured (but also significant amounts 
of secured) private money market instruments through prime money funds, where funds’ 
global portfolio diversification provided safety and substituted for government guarantees. 
 
At a deeper level, both alternatives’ safety was further enhanced by a combination of credit, 
liquidity and brand puts provided by deposit-funded banks and also bankruptcy exemptions. 
Both of these sources of enhancement served the purpose of perfecting institutional cash 
                                                
 
12For the remainder of this paper, the terms “shadow” banking system and wholesale funding are used 
interchangeably (see Pozsar, et al (2010)). 
Figure 5: Not Enough Short-Term Government-Guaranteed Instruments to Source Safety for Institutional Cash Pools
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Outstanding Amounts:
Short-term Treasury securities* 1,146 1,173 1,192 1,909 2,558 2,487
Short-term agency securities** 568 489 560 903 844 618
Total 1,714 1,662 1,752 2,812 3,402 3,105
(-) Foreign Official Holdings:
Short-term Treasury securities 216 193 181 273 562 na
Short-term agency securities 112 110 80 130 34 na
Total 328 303 261 403 596 na
(-) Demand from Institutional Cash Pools:
Institutional cash pools (based on available data) 1,771 2,120 2,216 1,834 2,041 1,911
Institutional cash pools (estimate of total volume) 3,120 3,735 3,852 3,467 3,596 3,432
Average 2,445 2,927 3,034 2,650 2,818 2,672
= Deficit of safe, liquid, short-term products (1,059) (1,568) (1,543) (241) (12) na
*Includes Treasury bills and Treasury securities with a remaining maturity of one year or less; **includes agency discount notes.
Sources: TIC, SIFMA, CapitalIQ, RMA, ICI, BIS, Pozsar (2011))
Sources of Institutional Demand for Treasury Bills and Agency Discos  
$ billions
 11 
pools’ position in making sure that they get their funds back ahead of insured depositors (see 
Pozsar and Singh (2011, forthcoming) and Pozsar, et al (2010)). Institutional cash managers 
have dedicated analysts assigned to making sure that such enhancements are in the money at 
all times. If they are not, analysts would alert portfolio managers to divest the corresponding 
insured deposit alternatives or request the posting of additional collateral to strengthen them. 
 
They key takeaway with regards to bankruptcy exemptions and puts as sources of safety 
enhancement should be that it were primarily deposit-funded banks that were providing them 
and were ultimately responsible for institutional cash pools’ getting their cash balances back 
full and at par. In other words, deposit-funded banks functioned as institutional cash pools’ 
deposit insurers
. Apart from minor exceptions when this didn’t happen, the provision of par 
puts cost banks their solvency and was a key propagator of the financial crisis of 2007-2008. 
 
The above observation also offers an alternative explanation as to why cash pools had a 
preference to avoid too much direct, unsecured exposure to banks through deposits. Namely, 
in the context of privately issued deposit alternatives, the decision ultimately came down to 
investing either in (i) an unsecured instrument that funds opaque banks’ extension of 
systemic risk insurance (that is, deposit insurance extended through credit and liquidity puts) 
to large volumes of money market instruments (such as asset-backed commercial paper), or 
(ii) investing in money market instruments that are secured, more transparent thank banks 
and that benefit from systemic risk insurance sold by banks. The second choice is optimal. 
 
This rationale for institutional cash pools’ aversion to bank deposits, together with the 
identification of the structural “deficit” of short-term government guaranteed instruments 
refutes
 the argument that the primary reason behind institutional cash pools’ holdings of 
privately insured deposit alternatives was yield. It was not, as on one and three month tenors, 
these alternatives yielded less than negotiable CDs, and while they yielded more than short-
term government guaranteed instruments, they were not held for yield reasons but because 
there was an insufficient supply of short-term government-guaranteed instruments. This 
shortage naturally pushed cash pools toward relatively high-yielding private alternatives to 
bills that were still low yielding relative to uninsured CDs (see Appendix, Figure A10). 
 
IV.   C
ASH EQUIVALENTS AND MONETARY AGGREGATES 
The similarity between short-term privately guaranteed and government guaranteed insured 
deposit alternatives is that they both represent solutions to institutional cash pools’ preference 
for principal safety, and corresponding aims to (i) avoid too much direct, unsecured exposure 
to banks through uninsured deposits and (ii) invest cash at a distance from banks.13 
                                                 
13Central banks themselves are very much conscious of principal safety and counterparty diversification, and are 
active users of market-based banking. For example, the Bank of International Settlements manages nearly $250 
billion in cash through various cash management products for central banks globally. Using interest rate and FX 
swaps, these products transform portfolios of long-term G7 government bonds into safe, short-term and liquid 
instruments that are “similar to certificates of deposit, priced at a margin below the OIS curve and liquidity 
enhanced by standby repurchases by the BIS”. Central banks prefer to keep some of their cash with the BIS 
(and hence, at a distance from banks), since as lenders of last resort to banks, it is too risky to keep all their cash 
at banks (just as it is for institutional cash pools)! For more on these products, on Bloomberg type BIS <GO>. 
 12 
 
These investment preferences are well documented in the portfolio allocation details of 
institutional cash pools based on data from the AFP Liquidity Surveys (see Figure 6): 
 
 
 
During the 2006-2008 period (a survey period that excludes the failure of Lehman Brothers 
and the change in deposit insurance limits that followed) the average institutional cash pool 
held about 20% of its portfolio in bank deposits, which likely represent insured exposures to 

 13 
the maximum possible extent through deposit brokers and aggregators14 (see line highlighted 
with green borders in Figure 7); about 10% in short-term government guaranteed instruments 
(lines highlighted with blue borders); and about 60% in short-term, privately guaranteed 
instruments, which can further be split into 20% held in collateralized private money market 
instruments (lines highlighted with red borders) and nearly 40% in government-only and 
globally diversified prime money market mutual funds (lines highlighted with orange 
borders).15 
 
Such institutional cash portfolios are commonly referred to in public financial statements as 
cash and cash equivalents. Cash is traditionally thought of as dollar bills and checking 
accounts, however, in the realm of institutional cash pools and money markets, the term 
“cash” refers to a broad range of safe, short-term and liquid instruments that are perceived to 
be cash (hence “equivalents”) for all intents and purposes, and which accounting rules permit 
to be carried at amortized cost.  
 
According to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95 (FAS95) issued in 1987, 
“cash equivalents are short-term [author’s emphasis], highly liquid investments that are both: 
readily convertible to known amounts of cash and so near their maturity that they present 
insignificant risk of changes in value because of changes in interest rates. Examples of items 
commonly considered to be cash equivalents are Treasury bills, commercial paper, asset-
backed commercial paper, repurchase agreements and money market mutual funds.” 
 
However, despite (i) the preferences of institutional cash pools to hold safe, short-term and 
liquid instruments as alternatives to insured deposits, and (ii) the accounting rules that apply 
to such instruments, they are not included in the official U.S. monetary aggregates. The 
Federal Reserve’s M1 aggregate only includes instruments such as demand deposits and 
other checkable deposits, and its M2 aggregate includes savings deposits, small 
denomination time deposits (that is, time deposits in amounts of less than $100,000) and 
balances in retail-class money market mutual funds. 
 
In the context of institutional cash pools’ portfolio allocation details, there are at least two 
conceptual problems with the scope of U.S. monetary aggregates. First, if retail-class money 
funds are included, so should be other functional equivalents such as institutional-class 
money funds; securities lenders’ cash collateral reinvestment pools; cash “plus”, enhanced 
cash and offshore money funds, as well as ultra-short bond funds and the relatively recent 
innovation of money ETFs (as an alternative to money funds).  Second, since the inclusion of 
retail-class money funds in M2 effectively amounts to an implicit inclusion in M2 of all the 
various types of money-market instruments that retail money funds invest in, the aggregate 
                                                
 
14One example of an aggregator is Promontory Interfinancial Network, LLC’s Certificate of Deposit Account 
Registry Service (or CDARS). 
15Investments in cash intermediaries such as cash “plus” funds, enhanced cash funds, ultra-short-bond funds and 
separate accounts was a fourth distinct investment option. However, this option was not used to seek principal 
safety, but to enhance portfolio yield. 
 14 
volume of all such types of money market instruments should ideally be included in M2 as 
well. 
 
Including all these instruments in the official monetary aggregates would yield a total broad 
money aggregate of over $15 trillion and a private broad money aggregate of around $12 
trillion just before the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, compared to the official M2 
aggregate of $8 trillion at the time (see Figure 7 below). 
 
To arrive at the broad money aggregates, the official M2 measure is adjusted to exclude 
retail-class money funds to eliminate double counting with the inclusion of all money-market 
instruments in broad money.  Private broad money includes adjusted M2 plus large time 
deposits, financial commercial paper, asset-backed commercial paper, the money-market 
(A1) tranches of asset-backed securities, tender option bonds, variable rate demand 
obligations, auction rate securities and broker-dealer’s net repos. Total broad money includes 
private broad money plus Treasury bills, Treasury notes with a remaining maturity of a year 
or less and agency discount notes. In other words, total broad money includes all safe, short-
term and liquid instruments that (i) cash managers perceive as cash equivalents and trade 
them as such in money markets and (ii) accounting rules permit to be carried at amortized 
cost. For similar views on the ideal scope of broad money aggregates see Sweeney (2009), 
Stein
 (2010), Gorton (2010) and Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2010). 
 
 
 
The portfolio allocation of institutional cash pools suggests that the bulk of institutional cash 
managers’ money demand is for “non-traditional”, that is, non-M2 types of money. This is 
demonstrated in Figure 8 below, which shows the ratio of deposits to deposit alternatives for 
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Figure 7: Broad Money and Its Components     
$ trillion, stacked
M2 (adjusted) Private Broad Money Total Broad Money
Source: FRB, Pozsar (2011)
Lehman Bankruptcy
Start of the Crisis
 15 
the average institutional cash pool, securities lenders’ cash collateral reinvestment accounts 
and the rest of the world’s short-term dollar portfolios.16 These data highlight a perception 
gap in the terminology that labels banks’ non-M2 liabilities as non-core (see Shin (2011)), 
when such instruments are actually core holdings of institutional cash portfolios.17 
 
 
 
This also suggests that the preferred habitat of retail and institutional (or wholesale) cash 
investors are distinctly different along the broad money spectrum. Namely, retail cash 
investors (or depositors) keep their funds in insured, M2 instruments (checking, savings and 
time deposits, broadly speaking), whereas wholesale cash investors (or institutional cash 
pools) keep their funds in uninsured, non-M2 instruments that include a broad range of safe, 
short-term and liquid instruments. 
 
Another factor that may explain the habitat discrepancy is retail and wholesale cash 
investors’ different uses for money. Thus, whereas retail cash investors primarily use their 
cash balances for transaction purposes, wholesale cash investors primarily use their cash 
pools for liquidity and collateral management, as well as investing purposes. These purposes 
                                                
 
16For the instruments in securities lenders’ cash collateral portfolios and “the rest of the world’s” short-term 
dollar portfolios see Appendix, Figures A11 and A12. 
17 Shin looks at the question of core/non-core instruments from the borrowers’ (banks) perspective, while this 
paper looks at the question of core/non-core instruments from the investors’ (funding providers’) perspective. 
Figure 8: The Preferred Habitat of Institutional Cash Pools is in Non-M2 Types of Money
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
All Institutional Cash Pools
Deposits 19.6 22.1 25.3 31.4 35.6
Deposit "alternatives" 72.5 58.3 69.5 60.8 57.7
Ratio 3.7 2.6 2.7 1.9 1.6
Securities Lenders' Cash Pools
Deposits 13.9 14.7 11.1 9.3 15.1
Deposit "alternatives" 65.5 64.1 54.3 58.9 59.1
Ratio 4.7 4.4 4.9 6.3 3.9
Foreign Wholesale Cash Pools
Deposits 6.8 5.0 6.8 3.3 -
Deposit "alternatives" 93.2 95.0 93.2 96.7 -
Ratio 13.7 19.0 13.7 29.3 -
Source: AFP, TIC, RMA, Pozsar (2011)
Institutional Cash Portfolio Allocations                                                                                 
% allocations
 16 
aren’t best met by deposits, but by non-M2 instruments such as Treasury bills, repurchase 
agreements and money market fund shares (also see Mehrling (2011)). 
 
In turn, that the preferred habitat of institutional cash pools is in safe, short-term and liquid, 
but non-M2 types of instruments helps explain why so much maturity transformation (and by 
extension, credit intermediation) in the United States is being channeled outside the 
traditional, M2-funded banking system. 
 
At any given point in time, the volume of maturity transformation conducted outside the 
traditional banking system is closely related to the shortage of short-term, government 
guaranteed instruments (such as Treasury bills and agency discount notes) relative to the 
volume of institutional cash pools.  
 
Given the structural shortage of short-term, government guaranteed instruments in the U.S. 
(see Figure 5 on page 7), and the non-M2 instrument preferences of institutional cash pools, 
shortages of short-term, government guaranteed instruments are not being filled with the 
issuance of deposits through the traditional banking system, but with the issuance of 
wholesale funding instruments by various types of entities in the “shadow” banking system. 
These entities include(d) broker-dealers, the GSEs’ retained portfolios, conduits as well as 
limited purpose finance companies and SIVs pre-financial crisis (see Pozsar, et al
 (2010)). 
 
In the years prior to the financial crisis, there was a close to 1:1 relationship between 
institutional cash pools’ excess demand for short-term, government guaranteed instruments 
and the rise in wholesale funding instruments (all non-M2 by definition) issued by “shadow 
banks” to fill this demand gap (see Figure 9).
18 If anything, shortfalls in the 1:1 relationship 
during the pre-crisis period suggests that the structural deficit of short-term, government 
guaranteed instruments may be understated due to (i) a lack of data to account for banks’ 
and local government investment pools’ demand for such instruments (see Section III on 
page 7), or (ii) an under-estimation of the aggregate volume of institutional cash pools (the 
potential for under-estimation is acknowledged in see Section II on page 4).19 
 
                                                 
18The “Secured + Unsecured Funding” line in Figure 9 corresponds to the instruments that make up the 
difference between private broad money and adjusted M2 in Figure 7. 
19The blue line in Figure 9 is calculated by subtracting from the total volume of short-term, government 
guaranteed securities (Treasury bills, Treasury notes with a remaining maturity of less than one year, and 
agency discount notes) the holdings of foreign official investors and the estimated volume of institutional cash 
pools; the resulting deficit figures are based to 2003Q1 and the cumulative gain in deficits since then are plotted 
with an opposite sign. The red and orange lines plot the cumulative incremental issuance volume of secured and 
unsecured wholesale funding instruments since 2003Q1. The relationship between the three lines breaks down 
after the crisis due to reasons that are outside the scope of this paper. 
 17 
 
 
V.   THE TRIFFIN DILEMMA OF THE U.S. BANKING SYSTEM 
The Triffin dilemma is often used to articulate the U.S. dollar’s problems as the global 
reserve currency under the Bretton Woods system. Namely, as U.S. dollars became more and 
more widely used as the world’s reserve currency in the 1960s, their volume in circulation 
grew to exceed the amount of gold actually backing them. This was unsustainable and the 
dilemma was “solved” by President Nixon taking the dollar off gold in 1971. 
 
In the present context, Treasury bills (or more broadly, short-term government guaranteed 
instruments) are like gold. Just as in the 1960s there were too many dollars relative to U.S. 
gold reserves, today there is too much demand for safe, short-term and liquid instruments 
relative to the volume of (i) short-term, government guaranteed instruments; (ii) high-quality 
collateral to “manufacture” alternatives to short-term, government guaranteed instruments 
(see Bernanke (2011)); and (iii) capital to support the safety, short maturity and liquidity of 
such alternatives (see Acharya and Schnabl (2009)). All of these aspects have global 
dimensions: 
 
First, one reason for the increase in the structural deficit of short-term, government 
guaranteed instruments is that reserve accumulation and foreign exchange management vis-à-
vis the dollar is primarily conducted by foreign central banks through the accumulation of 
U.S. government guaranteed securities, including short-term
 government guaranteed 
securities. However, these instruments are also the first-resort investment choice of cash 
pools. As such, the “international monetary system’s [ongoing slide] towards a massive 
dollar block” (see Carney (2010)) has implications for the portfolio composition of cash 
pools and banks’ reliance on wholesale funding in general. 
 
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Figure 9: Filling the Vacuum of Short-Term Government Guranteed Debt    
Cumulative flows, 2003Q1=0.0, $ trillion
Deficit of ST gov't guaranteed instruments Secured wholesale funding Secured  + unsecured wholesale funding
Source: Pozsar (2011)
Start of the Crisis
Lehman Bankruptcy
 18 
Second, the high-quality collateral requirements associated with the manufacturing of 
alternatives to short-term government guaranteed instruments is also influenced by foreign 
central banks’ accumulation of long-term U.S. government guaranteed securities. For 
example, a shortage of Treasury bills can be filled by lending cash in a short-term repo 
transaction backed by longer-term Treasury notes. However, if the supply of high-quality 
term collateral becomes scarce, either (i) private alternatives (such as asset-backed securities 
and CDOs) will take their place (see Caballero (2009) and Bernanke (2011)), or (ii) the 
velocity of high-quality collateral will accelerate (see Singh (2011c, forthcoming)) if demand 
for the manufacturing of more safe, short-term and liquid instruments persists. 
 
Third, the transformation of term private collateral into safe, short-term, liquid instruments 
requires the performance of credit, maturity and liquidity transformation, which were 
conducted across a highly diverse set of institutions in the “shadow” banking system and 
backstopped by a diverse set of banks globally. This explains the counterparty diversity, 
counterparty intensity and global scope of the “shadow” banking system as shown by the 
highly diverse set of entities plotted on its map
 (see Pozsar (2008) and Pozsar (2009)). In this 
context, the highly counterparty-intense nature of the “shadow” banking system could be 
rationalized as an “evolutionary” response to the counterparty diversification needs of ever 
larger institutional cash pools in a financial system with ever fewer large banks. This search 
for counterparty diversification occurred through various channels. 
 
One such channel was the provision of more and more short-term funding to the GSEs and 
broker-dealers instead of banks.
20 Another channel was European banks increasing their 
market share in selling liquidity puts to dollar-funded asset-backed commercial paper 
conduits sponsored by banks and other entities in the United States.21 And another channel 
was prime money market funds’ gradual evolution over time into entities that intermediate 
vast amounts of dollar funding from institutional cash pools in the U.S. to banks in Europe, 
and thereby function as “portals” through which ever larger institutional cash pools could 
attain adequate levels of counterparty diversification across many banks globally that was 
becoming increasingly difficult (if not altogether impossible) to obtain with a shrinking 
number of large banks domestically in the United States.22 
                                                 
20Note that the short-term funding of financial intermediaries is a function of both (i) the intermediaries’ 
willingness to issue short-term instruments, as well as (ii) cash investors’ preference to invest in short-term as 
opposed to long-term instruments. Without the overwhelming preference for safe, short-term and liquid 
instruments of institutional cash pools prior to the financial crisis (another way of saying that liquidity was 
abundant), it is unlikely that the GSEs and broker-dealers could have shortened their funding profiles to the 
extent they did (see Brunnermeier (2011)). 
21According to Standard and Poor’s of the 15 largest global liquidity providers to the ABCP market, 10 were 
European banks providing a total of nearly $450 billion in liquidity puts and 5 were U.S. banks providing a total 
of about $350 in liquidity puts as of March 31
st, 2007. For institutional cash pools security through liquidity 
puts, the global diversification of put providers for secured instruments such as ABCP was just as important as 
the global diversification of unsecured exposures to banks’ through money funds (see Footnote 22 below). 
22Thus, while the genesis of money funds was in the arbitrage of Regulation Q, their evolution into a global 
diversification outlet isn’t well recognized. 
 19 
 
These examples demonstrate that not unlike the soaring volume of U.S. dollars relative to the 
volume of U.S. gold reserves stretched the convertibility of the dollar in the 1960s, the rise of 
institutional cash pools and their safety preferences stretched the U.S banking system to its 
limits in its ability to guarantee cash pools’ principal safety and redeemability on demand and 
at par and in unlimited amounts and in all states of the world. The U.S. banking system failed 
at a task no less than endogenously creating private alternatives to Treasury bills, that had the 
same degree of safety and liquidity than the real T-bills that were in short supply. 
 
This modern-day Triffin dilemma was ultimately solved in two-steps. The first step was the 
Federal Reserve taking over from banks the responsibility of making good on credit and 
liquidity puts extended to privately issued insured deposit alternatives through the creation of 
a series of 13(3) lending facilities (see Pozsar, et al
 (2010)). In retrospect, however, it should 
have been the Federal Reserve providing these puts from the outset, not the banking system. 
Note, that the same guarantees have been provided to retail cash balances by the official 
sector since the creation of the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in 1913 and 1933, respectively. 
 
The second step was the subsequent ramp-up of the supply of short-term government 
guaranteed instruments by $2 trillion to accommodate cash pools’ trading out of private 
alternatives and into Treasury bills as the crisis intensified and the supply of the latter 
7instrument increased. In essence, the provision of funds through 13(3) facilities provided the 
funds to purchase newly minted, short-term government guaranteed paper. Also, in this 
sense, the “shadow” banking system did not shrink in a vacuum, but the instrument-void 
created by its shrinkage has been filled with the increased issuance of T-bills (see Figure 10). 
 
 
 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Figure 10: Broad Money and Its Components     
$ trillion
M2 (adjusted) Private Broad Money Public Broad Money
Source: FRB, Pozsar (2011)
Lehman Bankruptcy
Start of the Crisis
 20 
The diagnosis that deposit-funded banks were the ultimate guarantors of institutional cash 
pools’ principal balances is an important one given that the volume of uninsured institutional 
cash pools at $3.5 trillion is not far behind the volume of households’ insured cash balances 
at $6 trillion (both as of the first quarter of 2011). 
 
At just over 5%, uninsured institutional cash pools were a negligible fraction of insured 
deposits as recently as two decades ago (see Figure 11), but account for over 55% of insured 
deposits today. In light of these developments, it is legitimate to ask whether the secular rise 
of institutional cash pools relative to the volume of insured deposits in the U.S. financial 
system is making banks increasingly less able to backstop them.
23 
 
 
 
Indeed, if institutional cash pools continue to rely on banks as their credit and liquidity put 
providers of last resort, the secular rise of uninsured institutional cash pools relative to the 
size of insured deposits is going to make the U.S. financial system increasingly run-prone, 
not unlike it used to be prior to the creation of the Federal Reserve and the FDIC (see 
Appendix, Figure A13). 
 
Put another way, the secular rise of cash pools reduces the effectiveness of deposit insurance 
in promoting system-stability, if depository institutions are wired to serve as insurers of last 
                                                
 
23The flipside of this question is whether too big to fail banks should be allowed to provide credit and liquidity 
puts to institutional cash pools through the privately issued insured deposit alternatives they sell them. The 
provision of these puts are tempting, as selling systemic risk insurance is what any large (that is too-big-to-fail) 
bank would “naturally” start doing once the market perceives it as too-big-to-fail. 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Figure 11: Has the Effectiveness of  Deposit Insurance Been Eroded?     
$ trillions
Households' insured cash balances (~$6 trillion in 2011Q1) Institutions' uninsured cash pools (~$3.5 trillion in 2011Q1)
Source: Flow of Funds, CapitalIQ, ICI, RMA, BIS, Pozsar (2011)
 21 
resort for the world’s uninsured dollar liquidity. By extension, it also weakens Diamond-
Dybvig (1983) as an ex-post narrative for explaining the post-war quiet period in banking. 
 
VI.   POLICY ALTERNATIVES FOR DEALING WITH INSTITUTIONAL CASH POOLS 
Permanent solutions to the Triffin dilemma of the U.S. banking system requires policies that 
deal explicitly with institutional cash pools. These solutions include (i) the break-up of 
institutional cash pools; (ii) the matching of Treasury bill issuance to the volume of 
institutional cash pools; (iii) the expansion of lender of last resort access to non-banks 
(levered credit, maturity and liquidity transformers) that issue insured deposit alternatives; 
and (iv) the creation of a new class(es) of intermediaries that issue such deposit alternatives. 
 
First, the break-up option of institutional cash pools is the least feasible alternative, as it 
would require “trust-busting” on unprecedented scales across various industries in the non-
financial and financial sectors, globally, and at the cost of giving up efficiency gains that 
come from globalization and the central management of pooled cash balances in general. 
 
Second, if the policy choice is to satiate institutional cash pools’ demand for insured deposit 
alternatives with Treasury bills, the debt management office of the U.S. Treasury Department 
should consider the size and duration preferences of institutional cash pools. One should 
note, however, that this solution, while relatively straightforward, is not without costs as it 
would (i) shift rollover risks from the U.S. financial system to the U.S. Treasury Department; 
(ii) shift the focus away from optimizing the funding costs of the nation’s debt to 
accommodating the portfolio preferences of institutional cash pools; and (iii) disengage a 
dominant source of short-term funding from credit intermediation to the real economy. 
 
All that said, the synchronization of the issuance of U.S. Treasury bills to the aggregate 
volume of institutional cash pools could be a promising addition to the macroprudential 
toolkit in managing the size of the “shadow” banking system, and an operationally less 
cumbersome one than regulating and monitoring the shadow banking system.
24 Had there 
been more bills in circulation in the run-up to the crisis, it is likely that a greater share of 
subprime mortgages would have ended up not with levered money market accounts but 
instead with unlevered real money accounts, with less severe disruptions in a downturn.25  
 
                                                 
24 Issuing more Treasury bills would simply soak up the liquidity that institutional cash pools represent. It 
would reduce the “burden” of the banking system to soak up the same liquidity through the much more 
cumbersome process generating collateral and issuing levered, secured, short-term instruments against them. 
25 This argument is essentially the reverse of the so-called portfolio balance channel (see Bernanke (2010)). 
Thus, if the removal of duration via the purchases of Treasury notes currently incents market participants to 
substitute Treasury notes with long-term corporate bonds and equities, the removal of duration via the issuance 
of more Treasury bills would have resulted in duration-seeking market participants buying alternative assets 
such as private-label MBS and ABS CDOs. Had these assets been held in real money accounts, their implosion 
would have wreaked much less havoc in financial markets. 
 22 
For a similar take on the greater need for bills issuance—although from a different angle—
see Greenwood, Hanson and Stein (2010), who in their abstract conclude that “if there are 
negative externalities associated with private money creation, the government should tilt its 
issuance more towards short maturities. The idea is that the government may have a 
comparative advantage relative to the private sector in bearing refinancing risk, and hence 
should aim to partially crowd out the private sector’s issuance of short-term debt.” 
 
Also note that the flipside of large-scale asset purchases (excess reserves) are an alternative 
to Treasury bills as safe, short-term, liquid assets—albeit a less optimal one from the 
perspective of institutional cash pools as they can only have intermediated
 exposures to 
reserves through unsecured exposures to banks; Treasury bills are directly held and 
explicitly guaranteed alternatives to holding reserves indirectly through deposits. 
 
Third, if the aim is to involve institutional cash pools in credit intermediation to the private 
sector, recognizing the fact that institutional cash pools prefer to invest cash at a distance 
from banks and in secured, that is non-M2 types of instruments, implies the broadening of 
lender of last resort access to non-bank intermediaries that issue such instruments, such as 
broker-dealers (in the case of repo) and various types of maturity transformation vehicles that 
issued instruments such as asset-backed commercial paper, et cetera. The Federal Reserve’s 
facilities created during the crisis were a step (albeit not a permanent step) in this direction 
(see Mehrling (2011), Grad, Mehrling and Neilson
 (2011), and Pozsar, et al (2010)). 
 
Fourth, and finally, to the extent that the counterparty intensity of the―shadow banking 
system was an evolutionary response to institutional cash pools needs for counterparty 
diversification in a banking system that is dominated by a shrinking number of large banks, 
the creation of a series of intermediaries that fund in secured funding markets and serve as 
bridges between pools of long-term assets and the short-term cash balances of institutional 
cash pools merit consideration (see Gorton and Metrick
 (2010)). This is especially relevant 
given the run-off mode the GSEs (which served as such bridges) and the shrinkage of agency 
discount note supply it implies. The shrinkage of agency discos outstanding is another factor 
that’s chipping away on institutional cash pools’ preferred non-M2 habitat, which, unless 
countered by the issuance of more bills will likely lead to the increased issuance of new 
products such as collateralized commercial paper or putable CDs as alternatives. 
 
None of these alternatives appear in the policy debate surrounding the reform of the banking 
system or regulating the “shadow” banking system, however. Instead, reform to date took the 
stance of (i) pushing banks away from short-term wholesale funding (that is, away from 
private, non-M2 instruments) and toward more stable deposit funding, but without asking the 
related question of whether there is more demand for deposits; (ii) adjusting deposit 
insurance amounts on the margin and repealing Regulation Q, under the assumption that the 
motivation of institutional cash pools’ aversion to deposits and bills and preference for repos 
was yield; and (iii) mandating money funds to market their share as floating, as opposed to 
stable value instruments, but without considering what else will provide diversification for 
ever larger dollar-denominated cash pools away from an ever more concentrated U.S. 
banking system. Far from satisfying cash pools, these policies will likely frustrate them. 
 
 23 
Of all reform efforts to date, the Dodd-Frank Act has influenced the portfolio allocation of 
institutional cash pools the most through (i) the temporary provision of unlimited insurance 
for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts (until December 31, 2012); (ii) the repeal of 
Section 19(i) of the Federal Reserve Act prohibiting the payment of interest on transaction 
accounts (otherwise known as Regulation Q) effective July 21, 2011; and (iii) the increase in 
the deposit insurance limit on interest-bearing accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. 
 
According to the AFP surveys, the portfolio allocations of institutional cash pools to deposits 
have roughly doubled between June 2008 and June 2011, from 16% to 33% (see Figure 6). 
This has been driven by the 150% increase in the FDIC’s maximum insurance amount from 
$100,000 to $250,000, and the temporary provision of unlimited insurance on noninterest-
bearing transaction accounts. 
 
However, these allocations to deposits are unlikely to increase much further from here, even 
when the repeal of Regulation Q goes into effect on July 21
st, 2011. According to a special 
question in the June 2011 survey, 45% of institutional cash pools “have no plans to increase 
their balances held at their U.S. relationship banks as a result of the repeal of Regulation Q or 
unlimited insurance on transaction accounts though of 2012.” 
 
Several safety considerations could explain why: 
 
First, noninterest-bearing transaction accounts that are fully insured up through December 
31
st, 2012 still represent direct, unsecured exposures, and uncertainty as to how soon after a 
bank’s bankruptcy one’s balances could be recovered. Treasury bills and secured instruments 
such as repurchase agreements (or repos) being safer (and also interest bearing26) alternatives, 
with the latter offering more immediate (almost instantaneous) and certain (collateral quality 
dependent) recoveries than insured deposits.27 
 
Second, for interest-bearing transaction accounts, unlimited insurance will not apply, but 
only the new, standard maximum deposit insurance amount of $250,000. Given the average 
size of institutional cash pools and the number of FDIC-insured banks, even the higher 
insurance limits aren’t an efficient way for cash pools to attain safety. Here too, Treasury 
bills and repos will continue to represent safer alternatives.
28 
                                                 
26 Substituting noninterest bearing checking accounts with interest bearing Treasury bills or repo should not be 
considered as search for yield. First, for example Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2010) argue that 
Treasury bills are just as safe and liquid as checking accounts, with the added benefit that they earn interest. 
Second, when managing billions of dollars in cash, one is more like a funding provider, rather than a depositor. 
On very large balances, fiduciary responsibilities necessitate earning some return, even on an overnight basis. 
27An example of sophisticated cash investors’ relentless effort of securing certainty to get their principal back 
instantaneously is provided by the fact that not all cash managers invested in TLGP debt. Although FDIC 
insured (and hence backed by the sovereign), such claims were deemed subordinated in credit seniority to U.S. 
Treasuries as it was unclear when payment on them would be made in case of bankruptcy. 
28Several institutional cash pool managers highlighted this point as it would raise the risk of their own 
bankruptcies. Additional concerns raised by the managers of institutional cash pools were whether cash 
balances that amount to tens of billions would really rank pari passu with the balances of main street if the 
(continued…) 
 24 
 
Third, for interest-bearing non-transaction accounts (that is, for non-overnight institutional 
cash balances), similar to interest-bearing transaction accounts, even the higher, $250,000 
deposit insurance limits do not appear to be sufficient to attain full safety for institutional 
cash pools through insured deposits (see Appendix, Figure A14). Provided that a shortage of 
short-term, government guaranteed instruments exists, future leakage of funding into the 
“shadow” banking system is most likely to come from this maturity spectrum. 
 
VII.   CONCLUSIONS 
Through the profiling of the size and investment preferences of institutional cash pools, this 
paper explained the rise of the “shadow” banking system from a demand-side perspective. 
Explaining the rise of “shadow” banking from this perspective paints a very different picture 
than the supply-side angle that views “shadow” banking as a story of banks’ funding 
preferences and arbitrage. The conclusion of the paper is that institutional cash pools 
prioritize principal safety and portfolio diversification over yield and are hesitant (in many 
cases due to fiduciary reasons) to take on too much direct, unsecured exposures to banks 
through even insured deposits. In other words, institutional cash pools are not particularly 
keen on being intermediated through the traditional banking system. 
 
Between 2003 and 2008, institutional cash pools’ cumulative demand for short-term 
government guaranteed instruments (as alternatives to insured deposits) exceeded the supply 
of such instruments by at least $1.5 trillion. The “shadow” banking system rose to fill this 
vacuum, through the creation of safe, short-term and liquid instruments. Thus, from this 
perspective the “shadow” banking system was just as much about networks of banks, 
investment banks and asset managers working together to respond to institutional cash 
pools’s preference to invest cash at a distance from banks as it was about banks’ funding 
preferences and off-balance sheet banking. From this perspective, the rise of “shadow” 
banking has an under-appreciated demand-side dimension to it. 
 
In turn, if the development of the “shadow” banking system was an evolutionary response to 
the safety and counterparty diversification preferences of wholesale cash pools and a 
structural deficit of short-term government guaranteed instruments, there are indeed some 
strong macro reasons for why the “shadow” banking system exists. In other words, what 
looks like undesirable regulatory arbitrage from the perspective of regulated institutions, was 
desired portfolio diversification from the perspective of institutional cash pools. This is to say 
that if regulatory arbitrage inspired the pejoratively-sounding term shadow banking
,                     
cash portfolio diversification could imply renaming it to market-based banking. 
 
Central banks themselves are very much conscious of principal safety and counterparty 
diversification, and are active users of market-based banking solutions. The Bank of 
International Settlements manages nearly $250 billion in cash through various cash 
                                                                                                                                                      
 
payout of billions in balances would force the FDIC to impose uncomfortably large haircuts on small 
depositors. 
 25 
management products for central banks globally. Using interest rate and FX swaps, these 
products transform portfolios of long-term G7 government bonds into safe, short-term and 
liquid instruments that are “similar to certificates of deposit, priced at a margin below the 
OIS curve and liquidity enhanced by standby repurchases by the BIS”. Central banks prefer 
to keep some of their cash with the BIS (ergo, at a distance from banks), since as lenders of 
last resort to banks, it is too risky to keep all their cash at banks (just as it is for cash pools)!29 
 
Against this backdrop, the questions that regulators should be asking are: (i) whether to 
incorporate the issuance of short-term government guaranteed instruments in the macro-
prudential toolkit and aim to fully meet institutional cash pools’ demand for such 
instruments; and (ii) how, as an alternative, institutional cash pools could be involved in 
credit intermediation to the real economy through a market-based credit system and how this 
system—and the insured deposit alternatives it generates as a byproduct of its credit 
intermediation activities—should be embraced by central banks (see Mehrling
 (2010)). 
 
Institutional cash pools strong safety preferences were the principal drivers of the emergence 
of the market-based financial system. These preferences are either satisfied through policy or 
through solutions devised by the financial system. Frustrating the system’s ability to provide 
these solutions while at the same time not addressing the vacuum this creates through policy 
remain fundamental sources of systemic risk and point to more frequent banking crises ahead 
 
  
                                                
 
29For more on these deposit alternatives see page 164 of the 81st  BIS Annual Report. 
 26 
APPENDIX 
 
 
 
        Figure A2: High Net-Worth Individuals 
        Number of $ billionaires worldwide 
 
         
 
        Source: The Economist (http://www.economist.com/node/17929057) 
  
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010Figure A1: Non-Financial Corporations' Cash and Cash Equivalents Holding     
totals, $ billions
S&P500 (top 10 total) S&P500 (top 100 total)
Source: CapitalIQ, Pozsar (2011)

 27 
 
 
 
 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11
Figure A3: Long-Term Mutual Funds' Cash and Cash Equivalents Holdings     
$ billions
Source: ICI, Pozsar (2011 )
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10
Figure A4: Securities Lenders' Holdings of  Cash and Cash Equivalents     
$ trillions
Source: RMA, Pozsar (2011 )
 28 
 
 
 
 
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Figure A5: Cash and Cash Equivalents as a Share of  Total Assets     
Non-financial corporations, %
S&P500 (top 10 average) S&P500 (top 100 average)
Source: CapitalIQ, Pozsar (2011 )
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Figure A6: Non-Financial Corporations Cash and Cash Equivalent Holdings     
averages, $ billions
S&P500 - Top 10 S&P500 - Top 100 S&P500 - The rest S&P400 - All firms S&P600 - All firms
Source: CapitalIQ, Pozsar (2011)
 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure A7: Top Holdings of Cash and Cash Equivalents
Holdings of Cash and Cash Equivalents Holdings of Cash and Cash Equivalents
Ranked by 2010 balances, $ millions Ranked for each year on a dynamic and "anonymous" basis, $ millions
Rank Company Name 2010 2009 2008 2007 2005 Rank 2010 2008 2005 2003 2000 1995 1990
1 General Electric Co.                  78,958 70,488 48,187 15,731 8,825 1 78,958 48,187 28,671 13,576 8,195 7,259 3,853
2 Johnson & Johnson                   19,355 15,810 10,768 7,770 16,055 2 19,355 31,437 16,055 12,664 7,080 5,750 1,896
3 Chevron Corp.                          14,060 8,716 9,347 7,362 10,043 3 14,060 12,741 13,388 10,626 4,910 3,730 1,430
4 Dell Inc.                                   13,913 10,635 8,352 7,764 7,054 4 13,913 11,189 12,568 7,971 4,278 2,839 670
5 Google Inc.                               13,630 10,198 8,657 6,082 3,877 5 13,630 10,768 11,934 7,790 4,166 2,458 609
6 Merck & Co. Inc.                       10,900 9,311 4,368 5,336 9,585 6 10,900 9,782 10,043 7,290 4,115 2,323 403
7 Apple Inc.                                 10,734 7,609 7,236 9,162 4,150 7 10,734 9,347 9,585 6,149 3,994 1,847 390
8 IBM Corp.                               10,661 12,183 12,741 14,991 12,568 8 10,661 8,657 8,903 5,427 3,563 1,668 309
9 Oracle Corp.                             10,420 14,919 7,353 6,733 2,837 9 10,420 8,352 8,825 5,377 3,531 1,646 270
10 HewlettPackard Company          9,934 13,547 11,189 9,903 11,934 10 9,934 8,346 7,816 5,199 3,407 1,645 265
11 ConocoPhillips                         9, 454 542 755 1,456 2,214 11 9,454 7,976 7,324 4,943 3,374 1,559 256
12 Unitedhealth Group, Inc.           9,123 9,800 7,426 8,865 5,421 12 9,123 7,916 7,054 4,806 3,301 1,508 204
13 The Coca-Cola Company           8,517 7,021 4,701 4,093 4,701 13 8,517 7,426 6,258 4,317 3,182 1,463 186
14 News Corp.                              8,456 7,266 3,621 3,495 5,243 14 8,456 7,353 6,193 4,266 2,976 1,408 179
15 Exxon Mobil Corporation         7,825 10,693 31,437 33,981 28,671 15 7,825 7,275 5,421 4,225 2,610 1,364 173
16 WalMart Stores Inc.                   7,395 7,907 7,275 5,492 6,193 16 7,395 7,236 5,412 4,173 2,543 1,201 171
17 The Dow Chemical Company   6,894 2,846 2,800 1,736 3,806 17 6,894 6,377 5,243 3,917 2,537 1,167 166
18 Verizon Communications Inc.   6,668 2,009 9,782 1,153 760 18 6,668 5,844 5,151 3,777 2,430 1,140 140
19 Ford Motor Co.                        6,301 9,762 6,377 20,678 13,388 19 6,301 5,653 4,701 3,724 2,328 1,138 132
20 Eli Lilly & Co.                          5,993 4,463 5,497 3,221 3,007 20 5,993 5,497 4,440 3,658 2,297 1,083 129
Top 10 192,565 173,416 128,198 90,834 86,929 Top 10 192,565 158,806 127,788 82,069 47,239 31,165 10,095
Top 20 269,191 235,725 207,869 175,003 160,332 Top 20 269,191 227,358 184,985 123,875 74,816 44,196 11,831
Colors indicate cash and equivalents portfolios of: and
Red and green borders indicate corporations with significant finance company subsidiaries that have boosted their cash holdings  in anticipation of regulatory measures.
Source: Capital IQ; Pozsar (2011)
more than $10bn between $10 and $7.5bn between $7.5 and $5bn between $5 and $2.5bn less than $2.5bn
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Figure A8: The Number of FDIC Insured Banks in the U.S.     
thousands
Source: FDIC, Pozsar (2011)
 30 
 
 
 
 
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Figure A9: Counterparty Diversification for Large Cash Investors Is Getting Harder     
Top 10 banks share of  all FDIC insured bank assets, rolling, dynamic top 10, % share
Source: FDIC, Pozsar (2011)
-3.0
-2.5
-2.0
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Figure A10: Yield Difference Between 3-mo. CDs and Other Instruments     
ppts
Eurodollar deposits Financial CP Nonfinancial CP Treasury bills Asset-backed CP Agency discos
Start of the Crisis
Lehman Bankruptcy
Source: Haver, Pozsar (2011)
 31 
 
 
  
Figure A11: Securities Lenders' Cash Collateral Reinvestment Account Size (in $ trillions) and Composition (in %)
Securities Lending:                                    
Cash collateral under management, $ trilllion
2005 2006 07H1 07H2 08H1 08H2 09H1 09H2 10H1 10Q3 10Q4
Cash Collateral AuM:
Global market (incl. U.S. market) - 2.54 3.28 3.56 3.60 2.56 1.73 1.80 1.91 1.85 -
U.S. market only 0.85 1.03 1.27 1.22 1.65 1.24 0.83 0.85 0.83 0.85 0.78
Short-Term Investments:                               
% of total cash collateral AuM
2005 2006 07H1 07H2 08H1 08H2 09H1 09H2 10H1 10Q3 10Q4
Outright Holdings
Traditional Bank Liabilities:
Bank deposits 13.8% 13.9% 15.4% 14.1% 14.4% 7.9% 7.3% 11.4% 15.8% 15.3% 14.1%
Total 13.8% 13.9% 15.4% 14.1% 14.4% 7.9% 7.3% 11.4% 15.8% 15.3% 14.1%
Shadow Bank Liabilities:
Repurchase agreements 29.5% 27.7% 27.6% 28.8% 29.4% 26.2% 28.2% 27.5% 30.5% 29.8% 32.2%
Asset-backed securities (incl. ABCP) 23.4% 25.2% 27.5% 24.3% 16.6% 17.3% 15.3% 13.8% 10.2% 8.1% 7.6%
Commercial paper 6.5% 5.9% 5.2% 3.9% 3.7% 4.1% 5.8% 8.9% 7.7% 8.6% 9.0%
Funding agreements 0.7% 0.9% 1.5% 0.8% 0.8% 0.9% 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1%
Other instruments (VRDOs, etc.) 4.2% 3.3% 2.6% 1.8% 1.1% 1.5% 2.0% 2.1% 0.7% 1.4% 0.1%
Total 64.4% 63.0% 64.5% 59.6% 51.6% 50.0% 51.4% 52.5% 49.2% 48.1% 48.9%
Intermediated Holdings
Regulated and Unregulated Intermediaries:
Money market and other funds 1.8% 2.5% 1.5% 2.5% 3.3% 3.7% 6.4% 7.4% 8.4% 10.4% 12.5%
Total 1.8% 2.5% 1.5% 2.5% 3.3% 3.7% 6.4% 7.4% 8.4% 10.4% 12.5%
Aggregate Measures
Deposits 13.8% 13.9% 15.4% 14.1% 14.4% 7.9% 7.3% 11.4% 15.8% 15.3% 14.1%
Deposits "alternatives" 66.2% 65.5% 66.1% 62.0% 54.9% 53.6% 57.8% 60.0% 57.5% 58.4% 61.5%
Ratio 4.8 4.7 4.3 4.4 3.8 6.8 7.9 5.3 3.6 3.8 4.4
Medium-Term Investments:                          
% of total cash collateral AuM
2005 2006 07H1 07H2 08H1 08H2 09H1 09H2 10H1 10Q3 10Q4
Outright Holdings
Corporate bonds (incl. MTNs) 20.0% 20.6% 18.5% 23.9% 30.5% 38.5% 34.9% 28.6% 26.7% 26.3% 24.4%
1Institutional cash balances in traditional bank liabilities.
2Institutional cash balances in private, secured money market instruments.
3Institutional cash balances' intermediated holdings of secured as well as unsecured bank exposures.
Source: RMA, Data Explorers, Pozsar (2011)
 32 
 
 
 
Figure A13: The Frequency of Banking Crises 
 
Source: Reinhart and Rogoff (2010) 
 
Figure A12: The Portfolio Allocation of the Rest of the World's Short-Term Dollar Balances
Short-Term Foreign Funding of the U.S.        
$ billions
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Traditional Bank Liabilities:
Bank deposits (CDs) 40.5 53.9 33.4 33.9 27.2 26.1 16.3 17.9
Total 40.5 53.9 33.4 33.9 27.2 26.1 16.3 17.9
Government Obligations:
Treasury bills 862.1 378.5 229.1 253.2 283.8 316.9 268.6 23.2
Agency discos 89.8 173.6 109.0 147.0 150.0 123.8 97.1 88.1
Total 951.9 552.1 338.1 400.2 433.8 440.7 365.7 111.3
Shadow Bank Liabilities:
Financial CP 73.5 73.6 121.6 47.9 25.5 60.4 39.4 34.2
ABCP 42.3 84.8 115.6 na na na na na
Other 122.1 27.3 55.9 18.4 13.0 13.4 7.8 6.0
Total 237.9 185.7 293.1 66.3 38.5 73.8 47.2 40.2
Aggregate Measures:
Deposits (%) 3.3 6.8 5.0 6.8 5.4 4.8 3.8 10.6
Deposits "alternatives" (%) 96.7 93.2 95.0 93.2 94.6 95.2 96.2 89.4
Ratio 29.4 13.7 18.9 13.8 17.4 19.7 25.3 8.5
1Institutional cash balances in traditional bank liabilities.
2Institutional cash balances in government-guaranteed obligations.
3Institutional cash balances in private, secured money market instruments.
Source: TIC; Pozsar (2011)
1
2
3

 33 
 
  
-300
-250
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
50
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Figure A14: Still Not Enough Banks to Source Safety for Cash Pools                 
# of  additional banks needed to get safety through insured, $250,000 deposits, thousands
S&P500 (top 10 average) S&P500 (top 100 average) Asset managers (average) Securities lenders (average)
Source: ISDA, CapitalIQ, RMA, ICI, FDIC, Pozsar (2011)
 34 
References 
 
Acharya, Viral, and Schabl, Philipp, 2009, “Do Global Banks Spread Global Imbalances?”            
10th Jacques Polak Annual Research Conference, November 5-6, 2009. 
 
Bernanke, Ben S., 2011, “International Capital Flows and the Returns to Safe Assets in the 
United States,” Banque de France Financial Stability Review no. 15. 
 
Caballero, Ricardo J., 2010, “The “Other” Imbalance and the Financial Crisis
,”                        
NBER Working Paper No. 15636 
 
Carney, Mark, 2010, “Living with Low for Long
,” Remarks by Governor Carney at the 
Economic Club of Canada, Toronto, Ontario, 13th December, 2010. 
 
Gorton, Gary, 2010, “Slapped by the Invisible Hand
,” Oxford University Press. 
 
Gorton, Gary, and Metrick, Andrew, 2010, “Regulating the Shadow Banking System
,” 
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity (forthcoming). 
 
Holmström, Bengt, and Tirole, Jean, 2000, “Liquidity and Risk Management
,”Journal of 
Money, Credit and Banking, Vol. 32, No. 3, Part 1. (Aug., 2000), pp. 295-319. 
 
Krishnamurthy, Arvind, and Vissing-Jorgensen, Annette, 2010, “The Aggregate Demand for 
Treasury Debt,” NBER Working Paper No. 12881. 
 
Mehrling, Perry, 2010, “The New Lombard Street: How the Fed Became the Dealer of Last 
Resort,” Princeton University Press. 
 
Mehrling, Perry, 2011, “The New Lombard Street: Financial Globalization and the Future of 
the Fed,” Unpublished Mimeo. 
 
Pozsar, Zoltan, 2008, “The Rise and Fall of the Shadow Banking System
,”                           
Moodys’s Economy.com, July. 
 
–––––, 2010, “Banks Are No Longer Special: The Market-Based Banking System Is,” 
Unpublished Mimeo, November. 
 
 –––––, 2011, “Does the Secular Rise of Wholesale Cash Pools Necessitate Shadow 
Banking?” Unpublished Mimeo, May. 
 
–––––, et al., 2010, “Shadow Banking
,” Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Report 
No. 458, July. 
 
–––––, and Singh, Manmohan, 2011, “Money Creation through Static and Dynamic Chains 
in the Market-Based Financial System,” forthcoming. 
 
 35 
Shin, Hyun Song, 2011, “Global Liquidity,” Remarks at the IMF conference on “Macro and 
Growth Policies in the Wake of the Crisis,” Washington, D.C. 
 
Singh, Manmohan, 2011a, “Puts in the Shadows,” forthcoming. 
 
–––––, 2011b, “Making OTC Derivatives Safe—A Fresh Look
,” IMF WP/11/66. 
 
–––––, 2011c, “Velocity of Collateral,” forthcoming. 
 
Stein, Jeremy, 2010, “Monetary Policy as Financial Stability Regulation
,”                                 
NBER Working Paper No. 16883. 
 
Sweeney, James, 2009, “Long Shadows—The Sequel,”                                                               
Credit-Suisse Fixed Income Research, November 30, 2009. 
 
Van Wetering, Eric, 2011, “Systems Thinking in Investment, Banking and Regulation
,”                                 
Unpublished Mimeo, August. 
 