DISCLOSURE APPENDIX AT THE BACK OF THIS REPORT CONTAINS IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES, LEGAL ENTITY 
DISCLOSURE AND ANALYST CERTIFICATIONS.   
3 August 2016
Global
Fixed Income Research
Global Strategy
Global Money Notes #7
 Research Analysts
Zoltan Pozsar
 212 538 3779
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com
Sarah Smith
212 325 1022
sarah.smith@credit-suisse.com
Japanese Banks, LIBOR and the FX Swap Lines
July saw the maturity of $100 billion in formerly six-month unsecured funding 
provided by prime money funds to foreign banks in New York. With then only 
three months left to go until the October 17 prime money fund reform deadline, 
most of this funding was refinanced into three-month unsecured funding. The 
rest went to boost prime money funds’ growing liquidity buffers.
The rapidly shortening tenor of foreign banks’ funding profile from six months 
to three months, together with shrinking demand for three-month funding, has 
been driving three-month Libor fixings higher since the middle of July.
August and September will see the maturity of another $200 billion in formerly 
six month unsecured bank funding provided by prime funds to foreign banks. 
But unlike in July, we now have less than three months to go until October 17th 
and so most of this funding will be refied on terms shorter than three months; 
the rest of the maturities will be used to boost liquidity buffers further still.
Term unsecured funding lost to money fund reform can be replaced by another 
form of unsecured funding, but not secured funding. This is because global 
regulatory guidance appears to be that banks are not supposed to let their 
liquidity coverage ratios deteriorate as money fund reform runs its course. 
Replacing unsecured funding with secured (repo) funding would encumber 
HQLA portfolios and so worsen LCRs, which makes secured funding a no go.
Term unsecured funding can be shortened to a month at most for similar 
reasons: an increase in funding less than a month would worsen one’s LCR
With secured funding off limits, and the size and tenor of term money markets 
shrinking and shortening by the day, banks have three options to choose from: 
(1) pay up for dollar funding from money funds in New York and secure a 
bigger share of a shrinking pie; (2) raise dollar funding offshore via FX swaps; 
or (3) leave money markets altogether and issue term unsecured debt instead.
Japanese banks are the key drivers of current dynamics. In recent weeks, they 
have been issuing three-month paper to money funds at 90 bps. While much 
higher than three-month Libor at 75 bps at present, 90 bps are way cheaper 
than the cost of raising three-month dollar funding via FX swaps at 120 bps.
Given their sheer size – they are the largest issuers of unsecured paper – 
Japanese banks appear to be the marginal price setters of the term premium 
in unsecured money markets at present. There is plenty of room for them to 
pay up for funding from money funds before they become indifferent between 
raising dollars in New York City via money funds or in Tokyo via FX swaps. 
With the term premium being credit blind and country neutral, Japanese banks’ 
frantic quest for term funding is driving the term premium wider for everyone 
else and will push three-month Libor to 90 bps by September, in our view.
FX swap lines are not meant to make life cheap, but to make sure life goes on 
as we know it. Even though it is already cheaper to do so, Japanese banks 
won’t tap the Fed’s dollar swap lines until it becomes impossible to tap money 
funds for funding beyond one month. At that point, the swap lines will save the 
day and make sure life goes on without banks worsening their LCR.
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 2
Having a view on how much steeper the U.S. dollar Libor curve will get from here and 
what other funding rates will rise as we approach the October 17 prime money fund reform 
deadline requires familiarity with the structural balance sheet features of every single 
foreign bank branch in New York City – what their assets and liabilities are, their funding 
relationship with headquarters, and to which U.S. repo market segment they have access.
This issue of Global Money Notes provides a one-by-one review of the balance sheet of 
every major foreign bank branch in New York that is a habitual issuer of unsecured paper 
to prime money funds. Our analysis relies on the call reports of foreign bank branches.  
While these reports are publicly available, they are not collected by data vendors in an 
easily digestible form at present and – perhaps as a result of that – are not used by any 
branch of government for purposes of financial stability analysis. Conducting the analysis 
that follows would not have been possible without the help of Sarah Quirk Smith on our 
Global Strategy and Economics team, who wrote a program to scrape together every line 
item from individual call reports. The underlying data are the same that goes into the Fed’s 
4.30 statistical release (see here), but having the numbers on a branch by branch basis 
allows us to look behind the aggregate and peel the onion to uncover layers of “stress.”
Our analysis has seven parts to it.
Part one explains the three phases of prime money fund reform and the dynamics that are 
currently driving 3-month U.S. dollar Libor higher by the day. Part two explains the options 
of bank funding desks to replace funding from prime money funds, and why there is room 
for 3-month Libor to catch up with the all-in cost of dollar funding raised via FX swaps. 
Parts three to six discuss the structural balance sheet features of the New York branches 
of four groups of foreign banks – those that do mostly arbitrage, those from Japan, those 
from the eurozone and those from Canada – and what these features mean for the future 
of the o/n eurodollar market that underpins the Fed’s overnight bank funding rate (OBFR) 
and the JPY, EUR and CAD cross-currency bases (we provide a balance sheet snapshot 
of Swiss, British, Singaporean and Chinese banks without commentary in the Appendix). 
Finally, part seven concludes by explaining when it is reasonable to expect foreign banks 
to tap the Fed’s dollar swap lines and why October will feel like a month-long quarter-end.
Part 1 – The Three Phases of Money Fund Reform
It is helpful to think about the implementation of prime money fund reform in three phases.
Phase one, now complete, was about the pre-announced conversion of prime funds 
(which fund foreign banks’ New York branches, broadly speaking) to government funds 
(which fund the U.S. government and primary dealers, broadly speaking). These 
conversions affected both retail and institutional-class money funds. $350 billion worth of 
such conversions have been announced since last March, all of which are now complete. 
At the system level, adjusting for these conversions was relatively simple. The asset 
managers themselves were in control of the amount and timing of conversions, and bank 
funding desks could easily figure out how much funding they would lose by keeping track 
of the list of prime funds about to convert. Banks responded to the loss of funding from 
conversions by tapping either the FX swap or term debt markets, and the newly formed 
government funds invested the inflows from conversion mostly in agency discount notes 
and bills (inflows to the latter were helped by extra bill issuance and foreign central banks 
trading out of bills and funneling cash into FRBNY’s foreign repo pool instead, see here).
Phase two, currently underway, involves only institutional-class funds (but not retail funds) 
and is about the build-up of liquidity buffers in anticipation of outflows come October 17th. 
Unlike the pre-announced conversions of phase one, these types of flows have a more 
“sinister” nature. In phase one, asset managers were in total control – they decided how 
much in AuM will convert and when, and these conversions were telegraphed well in 
advance. While in phase one, the conversions were forced onto investors, in phase two, 
asset managers are the ones being forced: investors will either stay in prime funds or they 
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 3
will transition to government funds. And unlike conversions, no one has a clear sense as 
to how much money is going to flow from prime to government funds. Under intense 
regulatory spotlight, prime funds are preparing for the worst and hoping for the best.         
In an era of limited secondary market liquidity, the only true liquidity is maturity, and prime 
funds are building up massive liquidity buffers. While the SEC requires prime funds to 
keep at least 30% of their AuM in 1-week liquid assets, their current liquidity buffer is 
already 50% of AuM and the industry target for late September is near 70% (see Figure 1). 
In essence, it is the ramping up of these liquidity buffers that is behind the recent 
steepening of the U.S. dollar Libor curve. Between July 1st and October 17th, about $300 
billion in 6-month CD and CP issued by foreign banks to institutional-class prime funds is 
set to mature, and since the week beginning July 18th – which marked the start of “T - 3 
months” to the October 17th deadline – it is increasingly difficult to roll these maturities into 
3-month paper (see Figure 2). Importantly, the money is still with prime funds, but the 
growing size of liquidity buffers makes it feel as if term money has already left the room.  
To be sure, 3-month money is still available, but less so by the day and, as August 
progresses, term funding will soon be available for only two months at most. Before long, 
even 2-month funding will fade away. At that point, the dollar swap lines will save the day.
Phase three, which has yet to occur, will be about the flow of funds from prime to 
government funds. The outflows from prime to government funds are actually not a big 
deal. Investors transferring money over to government funds will be a smooth affair, as 
prime funds will be flush with liquidity and in a position to manage as much as $550 billion 
in outflows (70% of their AuM as of June 30th) with ease. As funds get wired out of prime 
and into government funds, the latter will place the proceeds either into Treasury bills, 
agency discount notes, repos with primary dealers or, as a last resort, RRPs with the Fed. 
Bottom line, liquidity will be there for outflows, and inflows will find assets to the last penny. 
The big deal instead is the extent to which these outflows will limit foreign banks’ ability to 
fund at tenors longer than one month, and prompt them to use the Fed’s dollar swap lines 
until the dust settles and there is clarity around how much money will stick with prime 
money funds and come back to term unsecured money markets after October 17th.
Part 2 – An Airbag Loaded with Bricks
That prime money funds will be well placed from a liquidity perspective for outflows means 
that banks will end up short liquidity one way or another. While every single bank that will 
be impacted by prime money fund reform is subject to Basel III and compliant with the 
liquidity coverage ratio (meaning they have the liquidity to pay off maturities as prime 
funds pull away), regulatory guidance appears to be that banks should maintain their 
liquidity ratios (LCR) while prime money fund reform runs its course. In  English, this 
means that foreign banks are not meant to lose HQLA or let their LCR deteriorate between 
now and October 17th. In essence, foreign banks’ HQLA buffers are like airbags filled with 
bricks – they look soft and puffy on paper, but feel hard if you ram your head into them.
This in turn means that foreign bank branches will have no option but to replace the 
unsecured funding they get from prime funds with another source of unsecured funding. But 
not secured funding, as secured funding encumbers HQLA and so worsens banks' liquidity 
coverage ratios (for more on Basel III’s funding rules of HQLA portfolios, see here).
The universe of foreign bank branches that are habitual issuers of unsecured paper to prime 
money funds is huge – as of March 31st, 2016, their aggregate balance sheet size was more 
than $1.8 trillion (see Figure 3). Our number is different from the Fed’s aggregate of $2.1 
trillion as we do not aggregate the balance sheets of all branches, only those that are 
habitual issuers of unsecured paper to prime funds. While these data may seem a bit lagged 
and stale in the context of the day-to-day monitoring of the yields where banks issue CP and 
CD presently, and the week-to-week monitoring of money fund flows, it is the only measure 
we have to gain insight into the structural balance sheet positions with which foreign bank 
branches are entering the brewing storm of prime money fund reform.
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 4
Figure 1: Battening Down the Hatches
Institutional-class prime funds, $ billion
425 556
0100200300400500600700800900
AuMCurrent 7-day liquidityby instrument Target 7-day liquidityNon-Negotiable Time Deposit Certificate of Deposit Financial Company Commercial PaperU.S. Treasury Repurchase Agreement U.S. Government Agency Repurchase AgreementOther Repurchase AgreementU.S. Treasury Debt U.S. Government Agency Debt Other
Source: Crane Data, Credit Suisse
Figure 2: The Last Hurrah
Holdings of institutional-class prime funds, $ billion
050100150200250300350
050100150200250300350
Jul-16Aug-16Sep-16Oct-16Nov-16Dec-16Jan-17Feb-17Mar-17Apr-17May-17Jun-17CDs and CP - all banks ex US banksCDs and CP - Libor panel banks ex US banks
Source: Crane Data, Credit Suisse
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 5
Figure 3: Foreign Bank Branches in New York
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
29076176585
336259714
297
02004006008001,0001,2001,4001,6001,8002,000
Assets LiabilitiesAll foreign banks that regularly depend on prime institutional money funds for funding ("sample banks")
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
The question we are trying to answer is what will happen to the balance sheet of these 
branches when a sizeable chunk of the $714 billion in unsecured funding goes away due 
to prime fund reform (again, see Figure 3). Unsecured funding funds one of four activities.
First, unsecured funding can fund IOER arbitrage trades. Similar to the way foreign banks 
borrow from the FHLBs in the o/n fed funds market in order to fund reserves at the Fed 
earning IOER, foreign banks borrow from prime funds in the o/n Caribbean eurodollar 
market to fund reserves at the Fed earning IOER (in essence, the cost of these arbitrage 
trades is what is captured by the Fed’s new overnight bank funding rate). The volume of 
such o/n eurodollar transactions is about $250 billion on any given business day, but the 
quarter-end balance sheet snapshot on display in Figure 3 only includes $100 billion of 
such trades. This is because on quarter-ends, foreign banks trim arbitrage by $150 billion 
(see Figure 4). As such, foreign banks could lose $100 billion in funding from the $714 
billion pod highlighted in Figure 3 without any major consequence for their balance sheet 
or the market. As money leaves prime funds for government funds, prime funds won’t roll 
overnight loans to banks, banks give up the reserves that were funded overnight and the 
Fed swaps these reserves into o/n RRPs for government money funds – unless of course 
these flows are absorbed by the Treasury boosting its cash balances or FRBNY luring 
more foreign central banks into the foreign repo pool, boosting the effective bill supply.
Second, unsecured funding can also fund HQLA portfolios. Unlike arbitrage trades, where 
banks decide to put on trades that inflate their balance sheet, the amount of HQLA a bank 
needs to hold to be compliant with the liquidity coverage ratio is determined by the liquidity 
needs of a bank’s customers. These liquidity needs determine a bank’s liability profile 
which in turn determines a bank’s HQLA needs. By definition, assembling an HQLA 
portfolio that complies with a bank’s customer-driven liability profile can only be funded on 
tenors longer than 30 days. This is because funding shorter than 30 days would increase a 
bank’s HQLA needs further. In fact, any trade that involves funding reserves at the Fed (or 
other forms of HQLA) with funds shorter than 30 days is surely motivated by arbitrage (see 
previous example) and not genuine HQLA needs. But arbitrage is possible only if one has 
“excess” balance sheet, which is a luxury available to only a handful of foreign banks. 
Foreign bank branches’ genuine HQLA needs – and the associated volume of funding – is 
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 6
Figure 4: Arbitrage On, Arbitrage Off
$ trillion
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
12 13 14 15 16Balance sheet shrinkage on quarter-end dateso/n RRP takeup on quarter-end datesNew York branches of foreign banks, total assets, $ billionsNew York branches of foreign banks, reserves, $ billions
Source: Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse
about $600 billion. About one half of this comes from prime funds (see Figure 2 above), 
which in turn means that foreign banks would have to replace that much in term unsecured 
funding in order to maintain their LCR as prime fund reform washes through the system.
Third, unsecured funding can also fund loan books in New York. Here, the options are 
fairly limited. Loans are illiquid and hence cannot be sold and so a bank either pays up for 
funding and sees its net interest margin erode on fixed rate loans (painful), or it pays up for 
funding without a sweat and passes it on to customers via floating rate loans (painless). 
Fourth, unsecured funding can also fund dollar loans to headquarters, which typically 
represent the dollar funding leg of dollars loaned through FX swaps. Loans to 
headquarters can also fund customer loans that finance the global flow of commodities 
and tradable goods. As dollar funding from prime money funds gradually fades away, the 
options are either to (1) reduce the volume of dollars loaned through FX swaps or shrink 
one’s commodity and trade finance books (in essence reducing one’s balance sheet) or 
(2) keep on bidding for unsecured funding from prime money funds at higher and higher 
rates and pass higher rates on to those on the other side of FX swaps and to customers. 
Either way, it is clear that the impact of prime fund reform will continue to be felt in offshore 
dollar funding markets and remain visible in the JPY and EUR cross-currency bases.
It is important to appreciate that, until now, all four of the above activities (assets) have 
been funded in the “no man’s land” that’s between the 30-day point of the LCR and the    
1-year point of the NSFR. The most active funding points in this no man’s land were three 
and six months and the single largest buyer base of unsecured paper of those tenors were 
prime funds. And it is precisely this part of the market that prime money fund reform is 
about to obliterate by decimating the buyer base of, and hence demand for, these tenors.
Structurally, foreign banks have two choices to make between now and October 17th – the 
first one involves “digging your heels in” and the second one involves term debt markets.
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 7
First, keep hanging around in “no man’s land” and issue unsecured paper at ever shorter 
tenors (but not shorter than one month) and ever higher rates. The view here is that 
sharply higher funding costs are a temporary phenomenon, and that it is better to pay a 
steep price for short-term funding for a few months than to lock in expensive long-term 
term funding for several years. This choice is based on an optimistic view of the post-
reform prospects of prime funds: that much less money will leave than what prime funds 
are currently provisioned for and that it is worth paying a steep price for a few months 
because after October 17, at least some of the money that is currently on the sidelines will 
be back in “no man’s land” for term trades. But, until then, the cost of term dollar funding 
raised onshore from prime funds will be high – driving three-month Libor higher and higher 
– and will approach the cost of term dollar funding raised offshore via FX swaps.
Second, turn the page and leave “no man’s land” behind and issue term debt. Term debt 
issuance will have to be ramped up to get compliant with the NSFR and TLAC anyway. 
This stance is based on a pessimistic view of the post-reform prospects of prime funds 
and, unlike the previous choice, won’t have much of an impact on U.S. dollar Libor fixings. 
Judging from the recent issuance record of foreign banks, Canadian banks appear to be 
going down the path of term debt, and Japanese and French banks are showing a high 
tolerance for pain, by borrowing for three months at 90 bps – versus Libor at 75 bps. While 
much higher than the current three-month Libor fixing, these levels are still cheaper than 
the all-in costs of using either JPY or EUR to raise dollar funding via FX swaps at 120 bps.
Bottom line, what we need to do from here is to separate the arbitrageurs from the “rest,” 
and figure out what the rest’s structural balance sheet features suggest about their ability 
to shrink balance sheet, reprice certain assets or tap alternative sources of funding and 
what these mean for various cross-currency bases, the Libor curve and various repo rates.
With that, let the great onion peeling begin…
Part 3 – Les Arbitrageurs
You can spot an arbitrageur by the share of one’s balance sheet devoted to high-volume, 
low margin activities, like borrowing fed funds and eurodollars overnight to fund reserves 
at the Fed earning IOER. The bulk of such arbitrage trades are generated by a small 
coterie of Australian, Canadian, German, Dutch, Finnish, Swedish and Norwegian banks.
Their branches run a $250 billion balance sheet in the aggregate (for a country by country 
breakdown of this aggregate, see Figures 5 - 8). Reserves clearly dominate the asset side 
(taking up anywhere between 100% and 50% of arbitrageurs’ balance sheets) and unsecured 
funding – mostly o/n deposits – from prime funds dominates the liability side. As noted above, 
the quarter-end snapshot of March 31st showing $103 billion in o/n deposits outstanding is an 
understatement, as on days other than quarter-end, arbitrage volumes are greater by as much 
as $150 billion. Ditto fed funds (FF) borrowed – the quarter-end snapshots provided by call 
reports suggest that arbitrageurs borrow only about $10 billion, when in fact we know that daily 
average volumes in the FF market are around $65 billion.
The implications of prime fund reform are the least painful for these banks. This is 
because their balance sheet is mostly about o/n arbitrage trades, which can be turned off 
and on with ease. Furthermore, they have no significant HQLA needs to fund; they have 
no loan books to fund; and they have no U.S. dollar needs at headquarters to worry about. 
For these banks, money fund reform will be as simple as shrinking their balance sheet.
On the flipside, the reduced availability of o/n eurodollar funds for arbitrage will also mean 
much reduced volumes behind the Fed’s new overnight bank funding rate (OBFR). Prime 
fund conversions to date have already reduced these volumes by close to $80 billion, and 
volumes could shrink by another $100 billion as prime outflows accelerate (see Figure 9). 
In other words, the depth of the o/n eurodollar market relative to that of the fed funds 
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 8
Figure 5: Australian Arbitrageurs
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
192631
635
320
01020304050607080
Assets LiabilitiesAustralian Arbitrageurs
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 6: Eurozone Arbitrageurs
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
4617
45
324
46
16
020406080100120
Assets LiabilitiesEurozone Arbitrageurs
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 9
Figure 7: Norwegian Arbitrageurs
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
000
14
007
5
0246810121416
Assets LiabilitiesNorwegian Arbitrageurs
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 8: Swedish Arbitrageurs
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
720
75
06
48
13
0102030405060708090100
Assets LiabilitiesSwedish Arbitrageurs
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 10
Figure 9: The Incredible Shrinking o/n Eurodollar Market 
$ billion
050100150200250300
050100150200250300
15 16o/n FFo/n ED
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
market is set to shrink and with it the allure of the OBFR as an alternative reference rate 
(see here for why we think the o/n GCF repo rate is a superior alternative to the OBFR).
Part 4 – Japanese Banks
Japanese banks in New York have close to a $600 billion balance sheet in the aggregate 
(see Figure 10). On the asset side, there are no traces of arbitrage. The dominant form of 
assets are customer loans in New York (around $300 billion), dollars lent to headquarters in 
Tokyo (around $150 billion), and HQLA (around $130 billion). On the liability side, unsecured 
funding accounts for 2/3rd of funds raised. Secured funding accounts for the rest.
But this aggregate picture hides two distinct funding strategies.
Appreciating each is essential in anticipating how Japanese bank branches will influence 
how money markets will trade between now and the October 17th reform deadline.
Figure 11 shows the balance sheet of the Norinchukin Bank’s New York branch, which is 
unique by any standard. At $120 billion, it is the second largest foreign bank branch in New 
York (after Deutsche Bank) and it relies almost exclusively on secured funding in the GCF 
repo market. Norinchukin, like many other Japanese investors that try to avoid depressed 
rates in Japan, invests in U.S. dollar assets. But unlike other Japanese investors, who fund 
their U.S. dollar assets in the FX swap market, Norinchukin funds its U.S. dollar assets 
(mostly U.S. Treasuries) through its New York branch in the GCF repo market.
How come Norinchukin can pledge so much in Treasuries without affecting its LCR? Well, 
as an agricultural cooperative, Norinchukin is not subject to Basel III and so it can utilize its 
U.S. Treasury portfolio to a maximum extent to raise dollar funding cheaply in New York.
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 11
Norinchukin also taps the unsecured market to the tune of about $26 billion and if this 
source of unsecured funding slips away due to prime fund reform, Norinchukin will have 
that much more funding to do in the repo market, pulling o/n GCF and tri-party repo rates 
Figure 10: Japanese Banks
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
155101115
17763243
27
0100200300400500600
Assets LiabilitiesSample banks with a home base in Japan
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 11: Norinchukin Bank New York Branch
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
118
0011
108
0260
020406080100120140160
Assets LiabilitiesNorinchukin Bank NY Branch
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
higher and wider. This is because the intermediation of flows away from unsecured to 
secured markets will flow through primary dealers' balance sheets, and primary dealers – 
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 12
who since July 1st are now all subject to daily average balance sheet reporting – will 
charge for a greater use of their much scarcer balance sheets through wider repo spreads.
Figure 12 shows the balance sheet of Mizuho Bank’s New York branch. This branch has 
more of a real economy “feel” to it than Norinchukin’s: about half of its $120 billion in
Figure 12: Mizuho Bank New York Branch
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
364124
63
9440
020406080100120140
Assets LiabilitiesMizuho Bank NY Branch
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 13: Other Japanese Banks
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
27080
653
173
27
050100150200250300350
Assets LiabilitiesJapanese sample banks excluding Norinchukin Bank NY Branch and Mizuho Bank NY Branch
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
assets are customer loans, about $40 billion are dollar loans to headquarters in Tokyo, 
and the rest (about $30 billion) are HQLA. On the liability side, half of the funding comes 
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 13
from the unsecured market and the other half from the secured (repo) markets. Similar to 
Norinchukin, Mizuho taps the GCF repo market as well and not the tri-party repo market 
(we know this because cross-referencing Mizuho’s call report with Crane’s data on money 
fund holdings, Mizuho’s New York branch does not appear to be doing any repos with 
money funds; Mizuho’s dealer subsidiary does, but we are not talking about dealers here).
If unsecured funding becomes less and less available and more and more expensive, 
Mizuho will likely respond by raising fewer dollars for Tokyo (a reduction of the supply of 
offshore dollars in the Tokyo money market) as it aims to prioritize funding for its illiquid 
loan book in New York. In turn, Tokyo will likely respond by trying to find an alternative 
source of dollar funding via FX swaps, which would push the cross-currency basis more 
negative still. Ultimately, the cost of onshore and offshore dollar funding would converge.
Figure 13 shows the universe of Japanese sample banks, excluding the New York 
branches of Norinchukin and Mizuho. The dominant names in this $300 billion lot are the 
New York branches of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. and the Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi.
What we see is a picture that is drastically different from the prior two cases.
Illiquid loans dominate on the asset side and unsecured funding from prime money funds 
on the liability side. And, unlike the previous two banks, which ship dollars back to 
headquarters, these banks are already tapping headquarters for dollar funding. As 
unsecured funding from prime funds becomes less available and more expensive, they will 
have to pay higher rates to take down a large share of a shrinking CP and CD market    
(the path they have chosen to date), step up their term debt issuance (no sign to date), or 
tap the FX swap market through headquarters (no sign yet, as it is costlier than the first).
The sheer size of the New York branches of Sumitumo and the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi 
is important to highlight in this regard as they are the single largest issuers of unsecured 
paper to prime money funds. In recent weeks, they have been issuing three-month paper 
at 90 bps, which while much higher than the comparable Libor fixing at 75 bps, is way 
cheaper than the all-in cost of raising three-month dollar funding via FX swaps at 125 bps.
In this sense, Sumitomo Mitsui and the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi appear to be the 
marginal price setters of the term premium in unsecured money markets at present.
There is plenty of room for them to pay up for CDs and CP before they become indifferent 
between raising dollars onshore in New York (by issuing unsecured paper to prime funds) 
or offshore in Tokyo (by swapping yen for dollars via FX swaps). With the term premium 
being credit blind and country neutral, these two banks’ quest for term funding is driving 
the term premium wider for every other issuer and pushing three-month Libor higher by 
the day –  three-month Libor could hit 90 bps by the end of August, in our view.
Part 5 – Eurozone Banks
Eurozone banks in New York (excluding the Landesbanks) have close to a $500 billion 
balance sheet in the aggregate (see Figure 14) – a bit smaller than the Japanese banks. 
The eurozone aggregate also masks various funding strategies – four in particular.
First, French “dealer banks” – the New York branches of Credit Agricole, Natixis and 
Societe Generale – harbor broker-dealer operations, which other foreign banks typically 
run out of a broker-dealer subsidiary, not a branch (see Figure 15). This is clear from their 
sizeable matched repo books (about $100 billion in the aggregate), which dominate their 
combined balance sheets. The rest of their balance sheet consists of credit ($70 billion) 
and HQLA ($50 billion) on the asset side, and unsecured funding on the liability side.
Like with Japanese banks, prime funds are the largest source of unsecured funding for 
French dealer banks and, if that funding source goes, the FX swap market is the backup 
alternative (French dealers banks already have a net funding need from headquarters).
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 14
Second, unlike the braches of its dealer compatriots, the balance sheet of BNP Paribas’ 
New York branch has a distinct real economy feel to it (see Figure 16). Just over half of its 
balance sheet is made up of credit (loans, corporate bonds, ABS, etc.) on the asset side, 
with the rest in HQLA. On the liability side, we can see only unsecured sources of funding, 
most of which – like in all prior examples – come from prime money funds. At present, 
Figure 14: Eurozone Banks
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
283411389
1076298
100
050100150200250300350400450500
Assets LiabilitiesEurozone sample banks excluding the Landesbanks
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 15: French “Dealer” Banks
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
515106
31
98275421
050100150200250
Assets LiabilitiesFrench "dealer" banks
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 15
BNP does not appear to be tapping headquarters for funding, but were that to change, it 
could join the dealer banks in crowding into the FX swap market and bid for dollar funding.
Third, Deutsche Bank’s New York branch, like BNP Paribas’, also has a real economy feel 
to it, with close to one half of its balance sheet funding loans and other forms of credit, and 
the rest of its assets is HQLA. However, unlike BNP, Deutsche Bank sources the bulk of 
its funding from Frankfurt and barely relies on prime funds anymore (see Figure 17). 
Figure 16: BNP Paribas New York Branch
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
06021
01916
1
010203040506070
Assets LiabilitiesBNP Paribas NY Branch
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 17: Deutsche Bank New York Branch
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
013730
8311
78
020406080100120140160
Assets LiabilitiesDeutsche Bank AG NY Branch
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 16
The balance sheet of Deutsche Bank’s New York branch provides a good example of what 
the balance sheets of the New York branches of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Sumitomo, 
Credit Agricole, Natixis, Societe Generale and BNP Paribas may look like once funding 
from prime funds goes away or becomes as expensive as the all-in costs of offshore dollar 
funding via FX swaps. They will all be calling headquarters for funding and in turn 
headquarters will be tapping the FX swap market for dollars – potentially to the tune of 
$100 billion each involving the swap of euros and yen for U.S. dollars. In both cases, the 
impact of such flows would be quite considerable for the relevant cross currency bases. In 
fact, according to the Bank of Japan’s latest Financial System Report (see here), the 
current size of the JPYUSD swap market is around $300 billion. One can only imagine the 
“wonders” that an extra $100 billion in bids for U.S. dollars could do to the JPY basis.
Figure 18: Other Eurozone Banks
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
23
006
013
17
0
05101520253035
Assets LiabilitiesEurozone sample banks excluding the French banks and Deutsche Bank
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Fourth, the remainder of eurozone banks – KBC, DZ Bank and Fortis – are unique in that 
all their New York branches do is borrow dollars from prime funds and send dollars back to 
headquarters where they fund legacy dollar assets that are hard to fund in repo markets 
(see Figure 18). If these branches encounter problems rolling their funding with prime 
funds, their role would shrink and headquarters would take over the funding of legacy 
assets by tapping the FX swap market – exacerbating the dynamics described above.
Part 6 – Canadian Banks
Canadian sample banks have a $300 billion dollar balance sheet in the aggregate. On the 
liability side, unsecured funding dominates at $155 billion (see Figure 19). But from this 
aggregate, we need to exclude two names which distort the picture. These names are the 
New York branch of the Bank of Nova Scotia and the Chicago branch of Bank of Montreal.
Figure 20 shows that the Bank of Nova Scotia’s reliance on unsecured funding from prime 
money funds is miniscule and so its balance sheet should not be included in an analysis of 
Canadian banks’ exposure to prime fund reforms. Furthermore, the Bank of Nova Scotia is 
running a primary dealer operation out of its New York branch – this can be seen from its 
large and comparable size of its repo and reverse repo positions – and so it is more akin 
to French “dealer banks” than the typical New York branch of a foreign bank.
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 17
Figure 21 shows that BMO’s Chicago branch is also in the matched-book repo business, 
but unlike the Bank of Nova Scotia, it also raises over $40 billion in unsecured funding 
from money funds. One interesting feature of its balance sheet is that about $10 billion of 
the $40 billion in unsecured dollar funding raised is “northbound” – it flows back to 
headquarters in Montreal, where it is presumably funding Canadian dollar (CAD) assets.
Figure 19: Canadian Banks
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
48175281
5810155
47
050100150200250300350
Assets LiabilitiesSample banks with a home base in Canada ex National Bank of Canada
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 20: Bank of Nova Scotia New York Branch
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
0431
26
346028
0102030405060708090100
Assets LiabilitiesBank of Nova Scotia NY Agency
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 18
Figure 21: Bank of Montreal Chicago Branch
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
922014
24
43
01020304050607080
Assets LiabilitiesBank of Montreal Chicago Branch
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 22: Canadian Banks ex Bank of Nova Scotia and BMO
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
3910140
04
111
20
020406080100120140160
Assets LiabilitiesCanadian sample banks excluding Bank of Nova Scotia NY Agency and Bank of Montreal Chicago Branch
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 19
Figure 23: Royal Bank of Canada New York Branch
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
09010
02
34
17
0102030405060
Assets LiabilitiesROYAL BK CAN THRE WRLD FNCL BR
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 24: Other Canadian Banks
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
391130
02
77
0
0102030405060708090
Assets LiabilitiesCanadian sample banks excluding Bank of Nova Scotia NY Agency, BMO Chicago Branch and RBC NY Branch
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 22 shows Canadian sample banks excluding the New York and Chicago branches 
of the Bank of Nova Scotia and BMO. This is a different image from where we started. 
Unlike all Canadian bank branches combined, this subset of Canadian bank branches rely 
nearly exclusively on unsecured funding from prime funds. $40 billion of this funding is 
northbound (going back to Canada), where – similar to BMO – it is funding CAD assets.
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 20
Figure 23 shows the balance sheet of RBC’s New York branch, which is another outlier. Its 
balance sheet has a real economy scent to it – its main assets are loans and the rest of its 
balance sheet is HQLA (reserves and Treasuries). On the funding side, unsecured funding 
dominates and it also taps headquarters of U.S. dollars funding. RBC’s options are fairly 
limited if it is unable to roll unsecured funding with prime funds. Its loan book would be 
difficult to shrink and so the alternatives are to issue term debt or to ask headquarters to 
swap CAD for USD via the FX swap market and downstream it to the New York branch.
Figure 24 shows the previous subset of Canadian sample banks excluding the New York 
branch of RBC. What we see is a simple balance sheet structure which relies exclusively 
on unsecured funding, the bulk of which is northbound, flowing back to headquarters.
The dominant names in this group are the New York branches of Toronto-Dominion Bank 
and CIBC. Together with the Chicago branch of BMO, these banks are responsible for the 
northbound flow of about $50 billion of U.S. dollars to Canada where these dollars are 
used to fund CAD assets. What types of assets is difficult to say, but a likely candidate are 
currency forwards whereby the long-only investors in Canada hedge their long U.S. dollar 
exposures back to CAD. It appears that the banks providing these hedges – TD, BMO and 
CIBC – get CAD by swapping USD with the Bank of Nova Scotia and RBC, which take 
these dollars, downstream them to their New York branch, and deposit them at the Fed.
It appears to be a distinctly Canadian game of cul-de-sac where TD, BMO and CIBC are 
all exposed to basis risk as their cost of unsecured funding goes up as prime money fund 
reform runs its course; the long-only community in Canada is exposed to rising hedging 
costs; and finally RBC and the Bank of Nova Scotia are set to benefit as lenders of CAD.
Conclusions - A Month-Long Quarter-End…
Three conclusions stand out from our analysis.
First, contrary to wide-held expectations, the impact of money fund reform on repo rates is 
shaping up to be relatively minor. Foreign bank branches that arbitrage a lot and are set to 
shrink their balance sheet as money flows from prime to government funds do not own a lot 
of Treasuries and so will have little to sell when their unsecured funding disappears. On the 
other hand, foreign banks that do not arbitrage will have to maintain their LCR and so won’t 
be in a position to either sell or repo the Treasuries in their HQLA portfolio. The exception to 
this rule is Norinchukin’s New York branch (not subject to Basel III), which as of March 31st, 
2016, had $20 billion in unsecured funding from prime money funds and could potentially 
direct up to that much in funding needs into the term GCF repo market. Were this to happen, 
the spread between GCF and tri-party repo rates would widen as primary dealers step in to 
intermediate between Norinchukin and government money funds the flows that heretofore 
happened between Norinchukin and prime money funds directly.
Second, the cost of three-month unsecured funding raised onshore in New York from 
prime funds will converge to the cost of three-month funding raised offshore via FX swaps. 
The all-in cost of swapping euros or yen for dollars is around 120 bps, which makes 
unsecured funding at 95 bps look cheap by comparison. This gives us confidence that 
unsecured rates have upside from here which three-month Libor will gradually capture.
Third, the all-in cost of dollars raised through the dollar swap lines are already cheaper 
than the all-in cost of dollars raised through FX swaps. Although the ECB and the BoJ now 
both have a pre-announced schedule (see here and here) of one-week dollar operations, 
central banks actively discourage banks from actually tapping the Fed’s dollar swap lines.
Both schedules of weekly operations run through the end of October and so fully cover the 
period when term unsecured funding markets may temporarily “close” due to prime money 
fund reform. In that sense, these operations are meant to put foam on the runway in order 
to ensure that banks will have access to funding that does not hurt their liquidity ratios. 
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 21
As we approach October 17th, there will be a point where banks will only be able to fund 
with prime money funds at tenors shorter than 30 days. 30-day funding from prime money 
funds has a 100% outflow assumption meaning that every penny of such funding must be 
invested in HQLA. In turn, transitioning from a world where term funding is available 
beyond 30 days (0% HQLA need) to one where it is not (100% HQLA need) would be a 
shock to foreign bank balance sheets. Central bank funding has a 0% outflow assumption 
even at tenors shorter than 30 days and so could solve banks’ funding needs with ease.
This is to say that the purpose of pre-announced dollar swap operations is not to make life 
cheap (for those with massive dollar funding needs), but to make sure life goes on… – that 
bills get paid and that the regulatory parameters set by Basel III are not breached. 
As long as markets are continuous and trades get done, the Fed, the BoJ and the ECB 
encourage and expect banks to tap private markets, whatever the cost of funds. In other 
words, the swap lines are not meant to police the euro or yen cross-currency basis – yet.
Rather, for now, the purpose of these swap operations appears to be to help banks sail 
through the storm of money fund reform without a dent in their 30-day liquidity buffers.
Dealer of last resort will be another day…
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 22
Appendix
Figure 25: Swiss Banks
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
320057
037
26
34
020406080100120
Assets LiabilitiesSample banks with a home base in Switzerland
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 26: Credit Suisse New York Branch
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
320026
0
37
250
010203040506070
Assets LiabilitiesCredit Suisse NY Branch
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 23
Figure 27: UBS AG New York Branch
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
000
32
001
34
051015202530354045
Assets LiabilitiesUBS AG NY Branch
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 28: Singaporean Banks
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
5005
03
8
1
0246810121416
Assets LiabilitiesSample banks with a home base in Singapore
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 24
Figure 29: Chinese Banks
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
00049
01051
19
020406080100120
Assets LiabilitiesSample banks with a home base in China
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 30: British Banks
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
06134
6733
34
0102030405060708090100
Assets LiabilitiesSample banks with a home base in the UK
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
3 August 2016
Global Money Notes #7 25
Figure 31: Standard Chartered Bank New York Branch
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
06120
67
27
6
0102030405060
Assets LiabilitiesSTANDARD CHARTERED BK NY BR
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
Figure 32: Barclays Bank New York Branch
as of March 31st, 2016, $ billion
00014
005
28
0510152025303540
Assets LiabilitiesBARCLAYS BK PLC SEVENTH AVE BR
Interoffice funding (from HQ)Deposits (operating)Money market funding (unsecured - fed funds purchased)Money market funding (unsecured - o/n TDs and CDs)Money market funding (unsecured - CP and term debt)Money market funding (secured)OtherDerivative payablesHQLA (reserves)HQLA (reverse repos)HQLA (bonds - U.S. Treasuries)Money market lending (to HQ)Money market lending (fed funds sold)Money market lending (interbank deposits)Capital market lending (corporate bonds, ABS, etc.)Loans (traditional lending)Derivative receivables
Source: FFIEC 002, Credit Suisse
GLOBAL FIXED INCOME AND ECONOMIC RESEARCH
Ric Deverell
Global Head of Fixed Income and Economic Research
+1 212 538 8964
ric.deverell@credit-suisse.com
GLOBAL ECONOMICS AND STRATEGY
James Sweeney, Chief Economist
Co-Head of Global Economics and Strategy
+1 212 538 4648
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com
Neville Hill
Co-Head of Global Economics and Strategy
+44 20 7888 1334
neville.hill@credit-suisse.com
GLOBAL STRATEGY AND ECONOMICS
Axel Lang
+1 212 538 4530
axel.lang@credit-suisse.com
Jeremy Schwartz
+1 212 538 6419 
jeremy.schwartz@credit-suisse.com
Sarah Smith
+1 212 325-1022
sarah.smith@credit-suisse.com
Wenzhe Zhao
+1 212 325 1798 
wenzhe.zhao@credit-suisse.com
US ECONOMICS
James Sweeney
Head of US Economics
+1 212 538 4648
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com
Xiao Cui
+1 212 538 2511
xiao.cui@credit-suisse.com
Zoltan Pozsar
+1 212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com
LATIN AMERICA (LATAM) ECONOMICS
Alonso Cervera
Head of Latam Economics
+52 55 5283 3845
alonso.cervera@credit-suisse.com
Mexico, Chile
Casey Reckman
+1 212 325 5570
casey.reckman@credit-suisse.com
Argentina, Venezuela
Daniel Chodos
+1 212 325 7708
daniel.chodos@credit-suisse.com 
Latam Strategy
Juan Lorenzo Maldonado
+1 212 325 4245
juanlorenzo.maldonado@credit-suisse.com 
Colombia, Ecuador, Peru
Alberto J. Rojas
+52 55 5283 8975
alberto.rojas@credit-suisse.com
BRAZIL ECONOMICS
Nilson Teixeira
Head of Brazil Economics
+55 11 3701 6288
nilson.teixeira@credit-suisse.com
Iana Ferrao
+55 11 3701 6345
iana.ferrao@credit-suisse.com
Leonardo Fonseca
+55 11 3701 6348
leonardo.fonseca@credit-suisse.com
Paulo Coutinho
+55 11 3701-6353
paulo.coutinho@credit-suisse.com
Lucas Vilela
+55 11 3701-6352
lucas.vilela @credit-suisse.com
EUROPEAN ECONOMICS
Neville Hill
Head of European Economics
+44 20 7888 1334
neville.hill@credit-suisse.com
Giovanni Zanni
+44 20 7888 6827
giovanni.zanni@credit-suisse.com
Sonali Punhani
+44 20 7883 4297
sonali.punhani@credit-suisse.com
Peter Foley
+44 20 7883 4349
peter.foley@credit-suisse.com
Anais Boussie
+44 20 7883 9639
anais.boussie@credit-suisse.com
EASTERN EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA (EEMEA) ECONOMICS
Berna Bayazitoglu
Head of EEMEA Economics
+44 20 7883 3431
berna.bayazitoglu@credit-suisse.com
Turkey
Nimrod Mevorach
+44 20 7888 1257
nimrod.mevorach@credit-suisse.com
EEMEA Strategy, Israel
Alexey Pogorelov
+44 20 7883 0396
alexey.pogorelov@credit-suisse.com
Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan
Carlos Teixeira
+27 11 012 8054
carlos.teixeira@credit-suisse.com
South Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa
JAPAN ECONOMICS NON-JAPAN ASIA (NJA) ECONOMICS
Dr. Santitarn Sathirathai
+65 6212 5675
santitarn.sathirathai@credit-suisse.com 
Regional, India, Indonesia, Thailand
Christiaan Tuntono
+852 2101 7409
christiaan.tuntono@credit-suisse.com 
Hong Kong, Korea, Taiwan
Hiromichi Shirakawa
Head of Japan Economics
+81 3 4550 7117
hiromichi.shirakawa@credit-suisse.com
Takashi Shiono
+81 3 4550 7189
takashi.shiono@credit-suisse.com
Deepali Bhargava
+65 6212 5699
deepali.bhargava@credit-suisse.com 
India, Vietnam
Michael Wan
+65 6212 3418
michael.wan@credit-suisse.com 
Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines
Weishen Deng
+852 2101 7162
weishen.deng@credit-suisse.com
China
Disclosure Appendix
Analyst Certification 
Zoltan Pozsar and Sarah Smith each certify, with respect to the companies or securities that the individual analyzes, that (1) the views expressed in 
this report accurately reflect his or her personal views about all of the subject companies and securities and (2) no part of his or her compensation 
was, is or will be directly or indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this report.
Important Disclosures 
Credit Suisse's policy is only to publish investment research that is impartial, independent, clear, fair and not misleading. For more detail, please 
refer to Credit Suisse's Policies for Managing Conflicts of Interest in connection with Investment Research: http://www.csfb.com/research-and-
analytics/disclaimer/managing_conflicts_disclaimer.html . 
Credit Suisse's policy is to publish research reports as it deems appropriate, based on developments with the subject issuer, the sector or the market 
that may have a material impact on the research views or opinions stated herein.
The analyst(s) involved in the preparation of this research report received compensation that is based upon various factors, including Credit Suisse's 
total revenues, a portion of which are generated by Credit Suisse's Investment Banking and Fixed Income Divisions.
Credit Suisse may trade as principal in the securities or derivatives of the issuers that are the subject of this report.
At any point in time, Credit Suisse is likely to have significant holdings in the securities mentioned in this report.
As at the date of this report, Credit Suisse acts as a market maker or liquidity provider in the debt securities of the subject issuer(s) mentioned in this 
report.
For important disclosure information on securities recommended in this report, please visit the website at https://rave.credit-
suisse.com/disclosures/view/fixedincome or call +1-212-538-7625. 
For the history of trade ideas suggested by the Fixed Income Research department over the previous 12 months, please view the document at 
https://plus.credit-suisse.com/r/aaCzfz . Credit Suisse clients with access to the Locus website may refer to http://www.credit-suisse.com/locus . For 
the history of trade ideas suggested by Emerging Markets Strategy Research, please see the latest Emerging Markets Fixed Income Views report on 
Credit Suisse PLUS . 
For the history of recommendations provided by Technical Analysis, please visit the website at https://plus.credit-
suisse.com/ECP_S/app/container.html#loc=/MENU_FI_ECON_TECHNICAL_ANALYSIS . 
Credit Suisse does not provide any tax advice. Any statement herein regarding any US federal tax is not intended or written to be used, and cannot 
be used, by any taxpayer for the purposes of avoiding any penalties.
For a history of recommendations for the financial instrument(s) featured in this report, disseminated within the past 12 months, please refer to 
https://rave.credit-suisse.com/disclosures/view/reportfi?i=241851&v=5pau8kc5mq2r56qnksx5tur4g . 
This research report is authored by:
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC .............................................................................................................................Zoltan Pozsar ; Sarah Smith
This report is produced by subsidiaries and affiliates of Credit Suisse operating under its Global Markets Division. For more information on our structure, please use the following link: https://www.credit-suisse.com/who-we-are 
This report may contain material that is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country or other jurisdiction where such 
distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation or which would subject Credit Suisse or its affiliates ("CS") to any registration or licensing requirement within such jurisdiction. All material 
presented in this report, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under copyright to CS. None of the material, nor its content, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted to, copied or distributed to any other 
party, without the prior express written permission of CS. All trademarks, service marks and logos used in this report are trademarks or service marks or registered trademarks or service marks of CS or its affiliates.The 
information, tools and material presented in this report are provided to you for information purposes only and are not to be used or considered as an offer or the solicitation of an offer to sell or to buy or subscribe for securities 
or other financial instruments. CS may not have taken any steps to ensure that the securities referred to in this report are suitable for any particular investor. CS will not treat recipients of this report as its customers by virtue of 
their receiving this report. The investments and services contained or referred to in this report may not be suitable for you and it is recommended that you consult an independent investment advisor if you are in doubt about 
such investments or investment services. Nothing in this report constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a representation that any investment or strategy is suitable or appropriate to your individual 
circumstances, or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation to you. CS does not advise on the tax consequences of investments and you are advised to contact an independent tax adviser. Please note in particular 
that the bases and levels of taxation may change. Information and opinions presented in this report have been obtained or derived from sources believed by CS to be reliable, but CS makes no representation as to their 
accuracy or completeness. CS accepts no liability for loss arising from the use of the material presented in this report, except that this exclusion of liability does not apply to the extent that such liability arises under specific 
statutes or regulations applicable to CS. This report is not to be relied upon in substitution for the exercise of independent judgment. CS may have issued, and may in the future issue, other communications that are 
inconsistent with, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in this report. Those communications reflect the different assumptions, views and analytical methods of the analysts who prepared them and 
CS is under no obligation to ensure that such other communications are brought to the attention of any recipient of this report. Some investments referred to in this report will be offered solely by a single entity and in the case 
of some investments solely by CS, or an associate of CS or CS may be the only market maker in such investments. Past performance should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of future performance, and no 
representation or warranty, express or implied, is made regarding future performance. Information, opinions and estimates contained in this report reflect a judgment at its original date of publication by CS and are subject to 
change without notice. The price, value of and income from any of the securities or financial instruments mentioned in this report can fall as well as rise. The value of securities and financial instruments is subject to exchange 
rate fluctuation that may have a positive or adverse effect on the price or income of such securities or financial instruments. Investors in securities such as ADR's, the values of which are influenced by currency volatility, 
effectively assume this risk. Structured securities are complex instruments, typically involve a high degree of risk and are intended for sale only to sophisticated investors who are capable of understanding and assuming the 
risks involved. The market value of any structured security may be affected by changes in economic, financial and political factors (including, but not limited to, spot and forward interest and exchange rates), time to maturity, 
market conditions and volatility, and the credit quality of any issuer or reference issuer. Any investor interested in purchasing a structured product should conduct their own investigation and analysis of the product and consult 
with their own professional advisers as to the risks involved in making such a purchase. Some investments discussed in this report may have a high level of volatility. High volatility investments may experience sudden and 
large falls in their value causing losses when that investment is realised. Those losses may equal your original investment. Indeed, in the case of some investments the potential losses may exceed the amount of initial 
investment and, in such circumstances, you may be required to pay more money to support those losses. Income yields from investments may fluctuate and, in consequence, initial capital paid to make the investment may 
be used as part of that income yield. Some investments may not be readily realisable and it may be difficult to sell or realise those investments, similarly it may prove difficult for you to obtain reliable information about the 
value, or risks, to which such an investment is exposed. This report may provide the addresses of, or contain hyperlinks to, websites. Except to the extent to which the report refers to website material of CS, CS has not 
reviewed any such site and takes no responsibility for the content contained therein. Such address or hyperlink (including addresses or hyperlinks to CS's own website material) is provided solely for your convenience and 
information and the content of any such website does not in any way form part of this document. Accessing such website or following such link through this report or CS's website shall be at your own risk.
This report is issued and distributed in European Union (except Switzerland): by Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, One Cabot Square, London E14 4QJ, England, which is authorised by the Prudential Regulation 
Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. Germany: Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited Niederlassung Frankfurt am Main regulated by the Bundesanstalt fuer 
Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht ("BaFin"). United States and Canada: Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC; Switzerland: Credit Suisse AG; Brazil: Banco de Investimentos Credit Suisse (Brasil) S.A or its affiliates; Mexico: 
Banco Credit Suisse (México), S.A. (transactions related to the securities mentioned in this report will only be effected in compliance with applicable regulation); Japan: by Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Limited, Financial 
Instruments Firm, Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau ( Kinsho) No. 66, a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Financial Futures Association of Japan, Japan Investment Advisers Association, 
Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association; Hong Kong: Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited; Australia: Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited; Thailand: Credit Suisse Securities (Thailand) Limited, regulated by the 
Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Thailand, having registered address at 990 Abdulrahim Place, 27th Floor, Unit 2701, Rama IV Road, Silom, Bangrak, Bangkok10500, Thailand, Tel. +66 2614 6000; 
Malaysia: Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, Credit Suisse AG, Singapore Branch; India: Credit Suisse Securities (India) Private Limited (CIN no.U67120MH1996PTC104392) regulated by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India as Research Analyst (registration no. INH 000001030) and as Stock Broker (registration no. INB230970637; INF230970637; INB010970631; INF010970631), having registered address at 9th Floor, 
Ceejay House, Dr.A.B. Road, Worli, Mumbai - 18, India, T- +91-22 6777 3777; South Korea: Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, Seoul Branch; Taiwan: Credit Suisse AG Taipei Securities Branch; Indonesia: PT 
Credit Suisse Securities Indonesia;  Philippines:  Credit Suisse Securities (Philippines ) Inc., and elsewhere in the world by the relevant authorised affiliate of the above. 
Additional Regional Disclaimers
Hong Kong: Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited ("CSHK") is licensed and regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong under the laws of Hong Kong, which differ from Australian laws. CSHKL does 
not hold an Australian financial services licence (AFSL) and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act 2001 (the Act) under Class Order 03/1103 published by the ASIC in respect of financial 
services provided to Australian wholesale clients (within the meaning of section 761G of the Act). Research on Taiwanese securities produced by Credit Suisse AG, Taipei Securities Branch has been prepared by a 
registered Senior Business Person. 
Malaysia: Research provided to residents of Malaysia is authorised by the Head of Research for Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, to whom they should direct any queries on +603 2723 2020. 
Singapore: This report has been prepared and issued for distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited investors and expert investors (each as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations) only, and is 
also distributed by Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch to overseas investors (as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations). By virtue of your status as an institutional investor, accredited investor, expert investor or 
overseas investor, Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch is exempted from complying with certain compliance requirements under the Financial Advisers Act, Chapter 110 of Singapore (the "FAA"), the Financial Advisers 
Regulations and the relevant Notices and Guidelines issued thereunder, in respect of any financial advisory service which Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch may provide to you. 
UAE: This information is being distributed by Credit Suisse AG (DIFC Branch), duly licensed and regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (“DFSA”). Related financial services or products are only made available 
to Professional Clients or Market Counterparties, as defined by the DFSA, and are not intended for any other persons. Credit Suisse AG (DIFC Branch) is located on Level 9 East, The Gate Building, DIFC, Dubai, United 
Arab Emirates. 
EU: This report has been produced by subsidiaries and affiliates of Credit Suisse operating under its Global Markets Division 
This research may not conform to Canadian disclosure requirements. 
In jurisdictions where CS is not already registered or licensed to trade in securities, transactions will only be effected in accordance with applicable securities legislation, which will vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may 
require that the trade be made in accordance with applicable exemptions from registration or licensing requirements. Non-US customers wishing to effect a transaction should contact a CS entity in their local jurisdiction 
unless governing law permits otherwise. US customers wishing to effect a transaction should do so only by contacting a representative at Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC in the US. 
Please note that this research was originally prepared and issued by CS for distribution to their market professional and institutional investor customers. Recipients who are not market professional or institutional investor 
customers of CS should seek the advice of their independent financial advisor prior to taking any investment decision based on this report or for any necessary explanation of its contents. This research may relate to 
investments or services of a person outside of the UK or to other matters which are not authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation 
Authority or in respect of which the protections of the Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct Authority for private customers and/or the UK compensation scheme may not be available, and further details as to 
where this may be the case are available upon request in respect of this report. 
CS may provide various services to US municipal entities or obligated persons ("municipalities"), including suggesting individual transactions or trades and entering into such transactions. Any services CS provides to 
municipalities are not viewed as "advice" within the meaning of Section 975 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. CS is providing any such services and related information solely on an arm's 
length basis and not as an advisor or fiduciary to the municipality. In connection with the provision of the any such services, there is no agreement, direct or indirect, between any municipality (including the 
officials,management, employees or agents thereof) and CS for CS to provide advice to the municipality. Municipalities should consult with their financial, accounting and legal advisors regarding any such services provided 
by CS. In addition, CS is not acting for direct or indirect compensation to solicit the municipality on behalf of an unaffiliated broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, or investment adviser for the purpose of 
obtaining or retaining an engagement by the municipality for or in connection with Municipal Financial Products, the issuance of municipal securities, or of an investment adviser to provide investment advisory services to or on 
behalf of the municipality. If this report is being distributed by a financial institution other than Credit Suisse AG, or its affiliates, that financial institution is solely responsible for distribution. Clients of that institution should contact 
that institution to effect a transaction in the securities mentioned in this report or require further information. This report does not constitute investment advice by Credit Suisse to the clients of the distributing financial institution, 
and neither Credit Suisse AG, its affiliates, and their respective officers, directors and employees accept any liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from their use of this report or its content. Principal is 
not guaranteed. Commission is the commission rate or the amount agreed with a customer when setting up an account or at any time after that. 
Copyright © 2016 CREDIT SUISSE AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 
Investment principal on bonds can be eroded depending on sale price or market price. In addition, there are bonds on which investment principal can 
be eroded due to changes in redemption amounts. Care is required when investing in such instruments. 
When you purchase non-listed Japanese fixed income securities (Japanese government bonds, Japanese municipal bonds, Japanese government guaranteed bonds, Japanese corporate bonds) from CS as a seller, you 
will be requested to pay the purchase price only. 