 
 
Credit Suisse Economics  
 
Global Money Notes #28 
Lombard Street and Pandemics  
 
The Fed’s liquidity injections appear not to be working. 
All segments of funding markets – secured, unsecured and FX swaps – 
continue to show growing signs of stress. The Fed may have to do more still. 
In the U.S., we watched, but didn’t feel  the funding impact of large banks in 
other countries being asked to help their economies. Now that U.S. banks are 
asked to do the same, dollar funding markets are starting to feel the impact.  
As U.S. banks increase their lending to the real economy as corporations draw 
on credit lines and banks le nd more to households and firms, lending will 
consume more balance sheet and risk capital, and that will leave less room for           
market making and arbitrage, which under current circumstances are “luxury”. 
The breakdown of o/n repo markets yesterday tell us that balance sheet is 
now getting scarce to conduct even the most basic type of market making. 
As banks are pulling back from market making, the Fed and other central banks 
need to assume the role of dealer of last resort... 
The Fed needs to become a buyer of CDs and CP, but not through the CPFF. 
The Fed needs to offer dollars on a daily frequency through the swap lines, 
and other central banks need to lend dollars on to both banks and non-banks. 
The Fed needs to broaden access to the swap lines to other jurisdictions as 
dollar funding needs are large in Scandinavia, Southeast Asia, Australia and 
South America, not just in the G -7. The dollar funding needs of both banks 
and non- banks is what’s at risk and the assets that are being funded are     
U.S. assets – Treasuries, MBS and credit – so the Fed has a vested interest. 
A hallmark theme of the post -QE global financial order has been the secular 
growth of FX hedged fixed income and credit portfolios at non-bank institutions 
like life insurers and asset managers from negative interest rate jurisdictions –  
the new shadow banking system, epitomized by money market funding           
(FX swaps) of capital market lending (Treasuries and the full credit spectrum). 
Carry makes the world go round and as banks do more for the economy 
central banks will have to backstop the shadow banking system – yet again…  
      
17 March 2020 
Investment Solutions & Products 
Global 
 
Important Information  
THIS IS NOT RESEARCH. PLEASE REFER TO THE IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES AND CONTACT YOUR CREDIT SUISSE 
REPRESENTATIVE FOR MORE DETAILS. This report represents the views of the Investment Strategy Department of Credit Suisse and 
has not been prepared in accordance with the legal requirements designed to promote the independence of investment research. It is not a 
product of the Credit Suisse Research Department and the view of the Investment Strategy Department may differ materially from the views 
of the Credit Suisse Resea rch Department and other divisions at Credit Suisse, even if it references published research recommendations. 
Credit Suisse has a number of policies in place to promote the independence of Credit Suisse’s Research Departments from Credit Suisse’s 
Investment Strategy -and other departments and to manage conflicts of interest, including policies relating to dealing ahead of the 
dissemination of investment research. These policies do not apply to the views of Investment Strategists contained in this report.  
 
 
CONTRIBUTOR 
Zoltan Pozsar 
212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
  
 
 
17 March 2020  
Global Money Notes #28 2 
The Fed’s liquidity response may not trickle down to every corner of the financial system. 
The liquidity response doesn’t address the functioning of unsecured funding markets, and 
the effectiveness of the FX swap lines may be limited by its operational details and reach. 
It feels like the Fed needs to do more still. 
We are concerned about four  areas: liquidity in the CD and CP markets; the frequency 
with which the Fed plans to do swap line operations and the FX points where it’s active; 
and the funding needs of institutions and regions that aren’t embraced by the swap lines. 
First, the initial shock to the CD and CP markets came from the equity market collapse  
and the flows it triggered whereby cash started to flo od back from securities lenders’               
cash collateral reinvestment accounts to short sellers’ accounts . Given that seclenders 
invest cash in the CD and CP mar kets and short sellers invest mostly in Treasury bills, 
these flows turned seclenders into net sellers of CD and CP, precisely when issuance 
from corporations and banks is picking up. Outflows from prime money funds have been 
small to date, but given ongoing stresses in funding markets and heightened risk aversion, 
prime funds could see more outflows this week as investors take refuge in the safety      
of government money funds. Such a rotation would further hurt demand for CD and CP 
this week and will continue to pressure funding spreads including U.S. dollar Libor-OIS. 
It isn’t reasonable to expect real money accounts – reserve managers and bond funds – 
to substitute demand from seclenders and prime money funds as reserve managers are 
raising dollar liquidity themselves to help banks in their jurisdictions and bond funds have 
better yielding opportunities to harvest elsewhere if they are not struggling with outflows. 
We do not think that the right solution here is re -activating the CPFF. The legal aspects  
of onboarding issuers takes time and liquidity can kill you quick. Our recommendation 
would be for the Fed to come to an agreement with the U.S. Treasury whereby the latter 
provides a “first-loss buffer” on any financial or non-financial CP the New York Fed  buys 
in the primary or secondary market. The first loss buffer would ensure that the Treasury 
takes the credit risk and the Fed only takes the liquidity risk su ch that the Fed feels 
“secured to its satisfaction” – which is what the Fed cares about most in a crisis situation.  
The money to fund such a first loss buffer is already in the system – it’s sitting in the 
Treasury General Account. Putting up $50 billion of the $400 billion sitting idly at the Fed 
would provide sufficient comfort for the Fed and near immediate support for the market – 
the Bank of Japan and the Bank of Canada already buy CP in their domestic jurisdictions. 
This template could then be extended to corporate bond purchases by adding more buffer 
and as President Dudley would say “going out the curve and down the credit spectrum”. 
Second, the swap lines are now active but it feels like the operational aspects of it need 
to be fine- tuned. Currently dollars are being offered weekly, but the FX swap market 
trades like they should be offered daily , and not only at weekly and three three- month 
maturities but at ultra-short tenors as well, similar to how the Fed lends in the repo market. 
Third, the swap lines are open only for banks and that is a fault line in the system.    
The swap lines were originally designed to help the funding needs of banks during  2008;  
they work by the Fed lending dollars to other central banks which then lend it to banks. 
But since the financial crisis, non- banks eclipsed banks as the biggest borrowers in the 
FX swap market: a hallmark theme of the post -QE global financial order has been the 
secular growth of FX hedged fixed income and credit portfolios at non- bank institutions 
like life insurers and asset managers – the new shadow banking system epitomized               
by money market funding (FX swaps) of capital market lending (Treasuries and credit). 
 
 
17 March 2020  
Global Money Notes #28 3 
Unless these non-bank entities get access to dollar auctions – from local central banks – 
FX swap spreads may remain wide if banks won’t serve as matched-book intermediaries.  
There is a growing risk that such intermediation will fracture as the assets that FX swaps 
fund include not only Treasuries but credit and CLOs too. Credit quality is fast deteriorating 
across various sectors  and that makes it riskier for dealers to fund some life insurers  
through FX swaps, just like it became riskier to fund some insurers during the 2008 crisis. 
Over the past five years bala nce sheet and the availability of reserves were the main 
drivers of spreads in the FX swap market. It’s time to think about credit risk  creeping in   
to funding markets through the asset side of some portfolios funded through FX swaps. 
Fourth, the geographic reach of the swap lines is too narrow. 
The Fed has swap lines only with the BoC, the BoE, the BoJ, the ECB and the SNB,   
and that’s because the 2008 crisis hit banks mostly in these particular jurisdictions. 
But the breadth of the current crisis is wider as every country is struggling to get dollars. 
The dollar needs of Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, 
Taiwan, Australia and Brazil and Mexico seem particularly striking for a variety of reasons. 
Scandinavia countries, like Japan have large dollar needs due to institutional investors ’ 
hedging needs and only Norway is endowed with large FX reserves to tap into. Mexico is 
dealing with a terms of trade shock due to the collapse of oil prices. Southeast Asian 
countries that serve a s banking centers need U.S. dollars to clear dollar payments and 
countries like South Korea and Taiwan have life insurers with meaningful hedging needs. 
The Fed’s dollar swap lines need to go global, the hierarchy needs to flatten. 
The message for central banks that emerges from this brief note is this: 
backstop not only the banks at the core of the financial system, but also markets and 
non-banks. The market backstops should include the CD and CP market where we need 
a buyer of last resort  as the structural buyers of paper are losing cash fast; the backstop 
of the FX swap market should include daily operations at more points along the FX curve. 
Like primary dealers offer round the clock liquidity across timezones, dealers of last resort  
– the central banks of the swap network – should offer dollar liquidity round the clock too. 
Finally, like primary dealers, who trade with anyone with an ISDA, dealers of last resort 
should too: the Fed by broadening access to other central banks and other central banks 
by broadening access to dollar auctions to non-banks like life insurers and asset managers. 
Demand on bank balance sheets will increase from here to provide credit  locally for the 
real economy – that will consume balance sheet and risk capital and will naturally leave 
less room for market making and arbitrage, which under current circumstances are luxury. 
While it’s too much to ask central banks to lend to the real economy, it’s not too much to 
ask them to become more active in making markets as banks free up balance sheet for 
lending more to the real economy. The breakdown of o/n repo markets today tell us     
that balance sheet is now scarce to conduct even the most basic type of market making. 
Charts showing Target2 balances became known as the visual representation of the ECB 
clearing payment imbalances between northern Europe and southern Europe through the 
balance sheet of local central banks within the eurozone. Now it ’s time for the Fed to     
do the same globally with other central banks and for thos e central banks to lend broadly 
– after all what is at stake here is the funding of U.S. assets: Treasuries, MBS and credit. 
In the U.S., we watched, but did not feel the funding impact of banks in other countries 
being asked to help their  economies. Now that U.S. banks are asked to help the 
economy, dollar funding markets are starting to feel the impact. When the U.S. sneezes…  
 
 
17 March 2020  
Global Money Notes #28 4 
      
Additional Important Information  
This material has been prepared by the Investment Strategy Department personnel of Credit Suisse identified in this material as "Contributors" 
and not by Credit Suisse's Research Department. The information contained in this document has been provided as g eneral market 
commentary only and does not constitute any form of personal advice, legal, tax or other regulated financial service. It is i ntended only to 
provide observations and views of the Investment Strategy Department, which may be different from, or  inconsistent with, the observations 
and views of Credit Suisse Research Department analysts, other Credit Suisse departments, or the proprietary positions of Credit Suisse. 
Observations and views expressed herein may be changed by the Investment Strategy Department at any time without notice. Credit Suisse 
accepts no liability for losses arising from the use of this material.  
This material does not purport to contain all of the information that an interested party may desire and, in fact, provides only a limited view of a 
particular market. It is not investment research, or a research recommendation for regulatory purposes, as it does not consti tute substantive 
research or analysis. The information provided is not intended to provide a sufficient basis on which to make an investment decision and is not 
a personal recommendation or investment advice. While it has been obtained from or based upon sources believed by the trader or sales 
personnel to be reliable, each of the trader or sales personnel and Credit  Suisse does not represent or warrant its accuracy or completeness 
and is not responsible for losses or damages arising from the use of this material.  
This communication is marketing material and/or trader commentary. It is not a product of the research d epartment. This material constitutes 
an invitation to consider entering into a derivatives transaction under U.S. CFTC Regulations §§ 1.71 and 23.605, where appli cable, but is not 
a binding offer to buy/sell any financial instrument. The views of the author may differ from others at Credit Suisse Group (including Credit 
Suisse Research).  
Credit Suisse is acting solely as an arm’s length contractual counterparty and not as a financial adviser (or in any other advisory capacity 
including tax, legal, accounti ng or otherwise) or in a fiduciary capacity. Any information provided does not constitute advice or a 
recommendation to enter into or conclude any transaction. Before entering into any transaction, you should ensure that you fully understand 
the potential risks and rewards and independently determine that it is appropriate for you given your objectives, experience, financial and  
operational resources, and other relevant circumstances. You should consult with such advisers (including, without limitation, tax advisers, legal 
advisers and accountants) as you deem necessary.  
No part of this material may be reproduced, retransmitted disclosed or distributed in any manner without the prior written permission of Credit 
Suisse.  
This material is issued and distributed in the U.S. by CSSU, a member of NYSE, FINRA, SIPC and the NFA, and CSSU accepts responsibility 
for its contents. Clients should contact analysts and execute transactions through a Credit Suisse subsidiary or affiliate in their home 
jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise.  
This material is provided for informational purposes and does not constitute an invitation or offer to subscribe for or purchase any of the 
products or services mentioned.  
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("CSSE L") and Credit Suisse International ("CSI") are authorised by the Prudential Regulation 
Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") and the Prudential Regulation Authority under UK laws, whi ch differ from 
Australian Laws. CSSEL and CSI do not hold an Australian Financial Services Licence ("AFSL") and are exempt from the requirement to hold 
an AFSL under the Corporations Act (Cth) 2001 ("Corporations Act") in respect of the financial services provided to Australia n wholesale 
clients (within the meaning of section 761G of the Corporations Act) (hereinafter referred to as “Financial Services”). This material i s not for 
distribution to retail clients and is directed exclusively at Credit Suisse's professional clients and eligible counterpa rties as defined by the FCA, 
and wholesale clients as defined under section 761G of the Corporations Act. Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited ("CSHK") is li censed and 
regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong under the laws of Hong Kong , which differ from Australian laws. CSHKL 
does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing F inancial 
Services. Investment banking services in the United States are provided by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, an affiliate of Credit Suisse 
Group. CSSU is regulated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under United States laws, which differ from Australian 
laws. CSSU does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the re quirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing 
Financial Services. Credit Suisse Asset Management LLC (CSAM) is authorised by the Securities and Exchange Commission under U S laws, 
which differ from Australian laws. CSAM does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations 
Act in respect of providing Financial Services. Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited (ABN 35 068 232 708) ("CSEAL") is an AFSL holder 
in Australia (AFSL 237237) . In Australia, this material may only be distributed to Wholesale investors as defined in the Corporations Act. 
CSEAL is not an authorised deposit taking institution and products described herein do not represent deposits or other liabil ities of Credit 
Suisse AG, Sydney Branch. Credit Suisse AG, Sydney Branch does not guarantee any particular rate of return on, or the performance of any 
products described.  
This report may not be reproduced either in whole or in part, without the written permission of Credit Suisse. Copyright © 2020 Credit Suisse 
Group AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
 