 
 
 
Credit Suisse Economics  
 
Oil, Gold, and LCLo(SP)R 
 
 
 
I am stunned every time a client asks me if I am worried about  the current  
level of reserves in the U.S. banking system. The market’s search for the  
level of reserves at which the system “breaks” implies that the market is 
worried about a repeat of the 2019 repo blowup. Such fears are misplaced.  
To be clear, there are risks lurking in funding markets, but they have nothing to do 
with the draining of reserves via QT (watching paint dry). Rather, they have to do 
with the draining of reserves via geopolitics (Russia responding to price caps). 
The fundamental difference between QT d uring 2018-2019 and QT today is 
that the first episode of QT happened while balances in the o/n RRP facility 
were zero. The U.S. financial system didn’t have a  penny of excess reserves, 
except for what banks had over and above their lowest comfortable level of reserves 
(LCLoR). The bid for repo funding was immense and the marginal repo lenders 
were banks with excess reserves to lend… until they ran out of reserves to lend. 
When the reserves ran out, o/n repo rates spiked and the music stopped   
until the Fed started to print reserves anew and broadcast them using a new 
o/n repo facility (the SRF). The chances of the same happening today are low. 
Worrying about how close banks are to their LCLoR is pointless for three reasons. 
First, demand for repo funding is weak today, in sharp contrast to demand 
during 2018 -2019 when demand was breaking new highs every single day. 
Similarly, demand for dollar funding in the FX swap market i s weak too , as  
FX-hedged buyers of Treasuries are now scaling back their positions and 
economic uncertainty and higher nominal rates are driving a wave of deleveraging. 
Second, balances in the New York Fed’s o/n RRP facility represent reserves 
that the financial system did not bid for during the day. In other words,  
the balances in the o/n RRP facility represent cash the system does not need. 
Today, that amount is over $ 2 trillion. That’s $2 trillion that large U.S. banks 
sweep off their balance sheets at the end of every day and that foreign banks  
and dealers don’t bid for to fund their loan books, inventories, or market making. 
That’s $2 trillion of reserves coming out  of the market’s ears. In plain English, 
the $2 trillion in the o/n RRP facility is the system’s “cash under the mattress”. 
Third, if for some reason we still end up in a situation of LCLoR miscalibration, 
the system has two pools of liquidity to tap: the $2 trillion under the mattress 
(see above) or the SRF. The raison d'être  of f unding market s is to mobilize 
excess cash; today, $2 trillion is waiting to be mobilized through funding markets… 
  
5 December 2022 
Investment Solutions & Sustainability 
Global 
 
Important Information  
THIS IS NOT RESEARCH. PLEASE REFER TO THE IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES AND CONTACT YOUR CREDIT 
SUISSE REPRESENTATIVE FOR MORE DETAILS. This report represents the views of the Investment Strategy Department 
of Credit Suisse and has not been prepared in accordance with the legal requirements designed to promote the independence 
of investment research. It is not a product of the Credit Suisse Research Department and the view of the Investment Strategy 
Department may differ materially from the views of the Credit Suis se Research Department and other divisions at Credit 
Suisse, even if it references published research recommendations. Credit Suisse has a number of policies in place to promote 
the independence of Credit Suisse’s Research Departments from Credit Suisse ’s Investment Strategy-and other departments 
and to manage conflicts of interest, including policies relating to dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research . 
These policies do not apply to the views of Investment Strategists contained in this report.  
 
 
CONTRIBUTOR 
Zoltan Pozsar 
212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
  
 
 
5 December 2022  
Oil, Gold, and LCLo(SP)R 2 
…so don’t sweat a repeat of 2019. To emphasize: 
LCLoR today is a red herring. LCLoR mattered last time because we had  
no excess reserves in the RRP facility and no SRF. When JPMorgan ran out of 
excess reserves (reserves > LCLoR) to lend, the interbank market froze up 
because other banks did not have any excess reserves to lend either. Today,   
if banks run out of excess reserves to lend, they have two alternatives to tap 
(the o/n RRP facility and the SRF) , so the system is backstopped very well: 
both at the bottom (lots of cash to mop up) and also the top (lots of cash to call on) 
– so don’t sweat the LCLoR from a QT perspective. But worry about it from a… 
…geopolitical perspective. 
Year-end turns have their usual rhythm. Balance sheets get optimized and  
this exercise disrupts markets either because the market is not prepared, 
reserves get scarce, or collateral gets scarce. Over time, the market develops 
muscle memory to deal with year -end turns, and provided that there are no 
new bottlenecks (G -SIB, SA-CCR, SCB) and no wrong -way market volati lity, 
year-end turns should not be anything out of the ordinary. In the recent past, 
the equity market was a swing factor to year -end funding volatility (see here). 
The basic dynamics at work were these: sharp rallies in the equity market  
drain liquidity from banks and force banks to fund, and sell-offs do the opposite. 
In the past, whether the equity market was selling off or rallying was a marginal 
swing factor for funding market dynamics around the year -end turn. Today, 
equity market sentiment is  helping on the funding front. On the other hand, 
commodity market dynamics might make things more complicated this year… 
Within commodities, there are reasons to be concerned about oil and gold. 
Instead of worrying about the LCLoR, we should worry about the “LCLoSPR”…  
The oil market is tight. Demand for oil exceeds supply coming from  oil fields. 
Were it not for the release of oil reserves from the SPR and OECD inventories 
and lockdowns in China all year, oil prices would have traded higher this year. 
Excess reserves in large banks’ HQLA portfolios (reserves > LCLoR) are like 
excess production capacity for large oil producers. Similar to how JPMorgan 
ran out of excess reserves in 2019, Saudi Arabia is low on spare capacity today.  
The SPR is like the o/n RRP facility. It can be tapped when oil levels are tight. 
But the SPR is finite, and recent releases have brought reserves down to levels 
we haven’t been at since the 1980s. The 400 million barrels left in it isn’t much: 
it could help police prices for a year if we released 1 million barrels per day (mbpd), 
half a year if we released 2 mbpd, and about four months if we released 3 mbpd. 
Think of these releases in the context of OPEC+’s recent decision to cut 
production by 2 mbpd and also that a ccording to some estimates, the  
re-routing of Russian crude oil from Europe to Asia has so far led to a loss of 
0.5 mbpd of lost output and risks are that that production losses will grow to 
1.5 mbpd once the price cap on seaborne Russian crude goes into effect today. 
Now that SPR releases are over , production cuts by OPEC+, re-routing, and 
price caps (not to mention the risk of China re-opening due to protests), the 
question for the U.S. becomes what to do with the SPR? Release more? Refill? 
Releasing more has its limits: supply lasts only about four months at 3  mbpd, 
but given the lack of “spot” spare capacity in Saudi Arabia  and the UAE , 
declining shale production in the U.S., headline production cuts by OPEC+, a 
loss of production due to a re-routing of Russian oil shipments , and the risk of 
more demand in China, future SPR releases will have to be big to have an impact. 
 
 
5 December 2022  
Oil, Gold, and LCLo(SP)R 3 
Thus, in the worst case, the SPR is empty by spring (next April), at which point 
the oil market is in the same spot as the repo market in 2019: zero balance in 
the o/n RRP facility to tap. And unlike reserves, which the Fed can easily print, 
“you can’t print oil to heat, or wheat to eat” (see here). You can frack new wells, 
but that takes time and until new production comes online, oil prices will spike. 
Refilling the SPR could lead to different dynamics. 
President Biden noted that he plans to refill the SPR when oil prices get down to 
$75 per barrel. That plan is hard to reconcile with OPEC+’s price target near 
$100 per barrel. Yes, we are headed toward a recession, but unlike in 2008 or 
during Paul Volcker’s reign, oil prices aren’t collapsing  as production capacity 
hasn’t grown recently (shale is fantastic, but production is not growing;  
shale was a sugar high and we are coming off the high, slowing on the margin) 
and so getting to $75 per barrel will be hard. So how will the U.S. refill the SPR?  
Could a price on Russian oil be a part of the strategy? Consider the following… 
First, Russian crude already sell s at a steep $30 discount relative to Brent.  
It is widely known that the big purchasers of Russian crude are China and India. 
Both countries have both state -owned and privately  owned tanker  fleets that 
the state can insure . In the case of India, it is widely understood  
that Indian refiners are turning some of the imported oil into diesel for re-export. 
Buying Russian crude at $60 per barrel ( pb) and selling  diesel at $140 pb 
makes for a nice crack spread, the petroleum market’s equivalent of 100 bps 
of spread in the land of  OIS-OIS cross-currency bases. India and China thus  
serve as matched-book commodity traders (instead of Glencore or Trafigura),  
the former dealing in oil and the latter in LNG, keeping commodities in circulation. 
Second, the risk of sanctions for buying Russian oil has certainly changed a lot 
for some countries: “the United States is happy for India to continue buying as 
much Russian oil as it wants, including at prices above a G7-imposed price cap 
mechanism, if it steers clear of Western insurance, finance , and maritime 
services bound by the cap ”, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said  last week 
(see here). Gone are the days when the U.S. Deputy National Security Advisor 
warned India and other countries of sanctions if they bought Russian crude oil. 
The change in tune could be one backdoor mechanism to refill the SPR, and 
given the $30 dollar discount to Brent that India is paying for Russian oil, this 
would be below President Biden’s $75 target. In a related ne ws item  
– Indian refiners becoming wary of buying Russian oil as EU sanctions loom  – 
it seems like crack spread harvesting (import oil, export diesel) will soon end, 
but then if we are “happy” for India to import, exports will serve a different goal. 
Third, we now know that  the price cap is set at $60 pb, the same  price at 
which Russia sells oil to India and China . But there is a difference between a 
tough bargain and an administered price.  Europe needs oil at capped prices, 
but President Putin is not interested in selling at capped prices out of principle.  
He said in the past he wouldn’t. 
On the other hand, t he U.S. needs to re -fill the SPR at some point because  
if it doesn’t, it might not be able to control domestic oil p rices in case oil gets 
caught up in geopolitics. If Russian oil is re -exported from India for that end, 
President Putin probably won’t like that  out of principle either . Russian oil  
shall not age in giant, underground salt caverns along the U.S. Gulf Coas t,  
or, if it were to, then payments will be accepted only in gold, not dollars or rupees. 
 
 
5 December 2022  
Oil, Gold, and LCLo(SP)R 4 
This is nonsense you say. No it is not . Look at the tit -for-tat measures so far: 
you invade Ukraine, I freeze your FX reserves; you freeze my FX reserves,  
I make you pay for gas in rubles; the West boycotts my Urals, I’ll ship it east… 
…the West caps the price of Urals, let them, but I’ll make them pay in gold.  
And if some countries re-export Urals to the West, I’ll make them pay in gold too. 
To use Pippa Malmgren’s terms, World War III already started, it’s just that it is 
a hot war in cold places (in space, cyberspace, underwater , and Svalbard) and 
a cold war in hot places (militarizing islands in the Pacific and mines in Africa).  
Hot wars in cold places also involve corridors of power that determine who gets 
to use cutting -edge technologies (the U.S.’s technology blockade of China), 
who gets paid how much for commodities (the G7’s price cap on Russian oil), 
and how commodity trades get settled (Moscow’s demand to get paid in gold 
as an analogue to Moscow’s demand this year to get paid in rubles for gas). 
War is not about gentlemanly conduct… 
The cap of $60 per barrel  for Russian oil equals the price of a gram of gold  
(at current market prices). Let’s ima gine this set up as a peg. The G7, led by 
the U.S., effectively pegs the U.S. dollar to Urals at $60 per barrel. In turn, 
Russia pegs Urals to gold at the same price (a gram of gold for a barrel of Urals). 
The U.S. dollar effectively gets “revalued” versus Russian oil: “a barrel for less”. 
The Western side is looking for a bargain, effectively forcing a price on the “+” 
in OPEC+. But if the West is looking for a bargain, Russia can give one the  
West can’t refuse: “a gram for more”. If Russia countered the price peg of $60 
with offering two barrels of oil at the peg for a gram of gold, gold prices double. 
Russia won’t produce more oil, but would ensure that there is enough demand 
that production doesn’t get shut. And it would also ensure that more oil goes to 
Europe than to the U.S. through I ndia. And most important, gold going from 
$1,800 to close to $ 3,600 would increase the value of Russia’s gold reserves 
and its gold output at home and in a range of countries in Africa. Crazy? Yes. 
Improbable? No. This was a year of unthinkable macro scenarios and the 
return of statecraft as the dominant force driving monetary and fiscal decisions. 
I am often asked about the next LDI blowup. 
Those questions are missing the point.  The lesson about the mini -budget and 
the gilt sell-off that followed is that states sometimes do irresponsible things, or 
things that seem responsible but may backfire. Russia’s decision to link gold to 
oil could bring gold back as a settlement medium and increase its intrinsic value 
sharply. Banks active in the paper gold market wo uld face a liquidity shortfall, 
as all banks active in commodities tend to be long OTC derivative receivables 
hedged with futures (an asymmetric liquidity position). That’s a risk we don’t 
think enough about and a risk that could complicate the coming year -end turn, 
as a sharp move in gold prices could force an unexpected mobilization of reserves 
(from the o/n RRP facility to banks)  and expansions in balance sheets (SLR) 
and risk-weighted assets. That’s the last thing we need around year-end. 
Basel III was designed to keep banks from doing things that could hurt them, 
but as the mini-budget has shown and Russia’s response to the cap might show, 
Basel III won’t protect from states doing things that could end up hurting banks. 
Just as the German industrialist who built a successful business over a lifetime 
and outsourced only one thing to the German government – energy security – 
banks have been managing their paper gold books with one assumption, which 
is that states would ensure gold wouldn’t come back as a settlement medium.  
 
 
 
5 December 2022  
Oil, Gold, and LCLo(SP)R 5 
  
Additional Important Information  
This material has been prepared by the Investment Strategy Department personnel of Credit Suisse identified in this material as "Contributors" and not by Credit 
Suisse's Research Department. The information contained in this document has been provided as general market commentary only and does not constitute any 
form of personal advice, legal, tax or other regulated financial advice or service. It is intended only to provide observatio ns and views of the Investment Strategy 
Department, which may be different from, or inconsistent with, the observations and views of Credit Suisse Research Departmen t analysts, other Credit Suisse 
departments, or the proprietary positions of Credit Suisse. Observa tions and views expressed herein may be changed by the Investment Strategy Department at 
any time without notice. Credit Suisse accepts no liability for losses arising from the use or reliance on of this material. This material is not for distribution to retail 
clients and is directed exclusively at Credit Suisse’s institutional clients.  
FOR IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES on companies covered in Credit Suisse Global Markets Division research reports, please see http://www.credit-
suisse.com/researchdisclosures. To obtain a copy of the most recent Credit Suisse research on any company mentioned please contact your sales 
representative or go to http://www.credit-suisse.com/researchandanalytics.  
This material does not purport to contain all of the information that an interested party may desire and, in fact, provides o nly a limited view of a particular market. 
It is not investment research, or a research recommendation for regulatory purposes, as it does not constitute substantive research or analysis. This materi al is 
provided for informational purposes only and does not constitute an invitation or offer to subscribe for or purchase any of the products or services mentioned.  
The information provided is not intended to provide a sufficient basis on which to make an investment decision and is not a p ersonal recommendation or 
investment advice. While it has been obtained from or based upon sour ces believed by the trader or sales personnel to be reliable, each of the trader or sales 
personnel and Credit Suisse does not represent or warrant its accuracy or completeness and is not responsible for losses or d amages arising from the use or 
reliance on of this material.  
Where distribution of this material is subject to the rules of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), it is a “solicitation” of derivatives 
business only as that term is used within CFTC Rule 1.71 and 23.605 promulgate d under the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (the “CFTC Rules”) where 
applicable, but is not a binding offer to buy/sell any financial instrument. The views of the author may differ from others a t Credit Suisse Group (including Credit 
Suisse Research).  
Credit Suisse is acting solely as an arm’s length contractual counterparty and not as a financial adviser (or in any other ad visory capacity including tax, legal, 
accounting or otherwise) or in a fiduciary capacity. Any information provided does not consti tute advice or a recommendation to enter into or conclude any 
transaction. Before entering into any transaction, you should ensure that you fully understand the potential risks and reward s and independently determine that it 
is appropriate for you given yo ur objectives, experience, financial and operational resources, and other relevant circumstances. You should consult with suc h 
advisers (including, without limitation, tax advisers, legal advisers and accountants) as you deem necessary.  
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("CSSEL") and Credit Suisse International ("CSI") are authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authori ty and regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") and the Prudential Regulation Authority under UK laws, which differ fro m Australian Laws. CSSEL and CSI do not 
hold an Australian Financial Services Licence ("AFSL") and are exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporat ions Act (Cth) 2001 
("Corporations Act") in respect of the financial services provided to A ustralian wholesale clients (within the meaning of section 761G of the Corporations Act) 
(hereinafter referred to as “Financial Services”). This material is not for distribution to retail clients and is directed ex clusively at Credit Suisse's professional 
clients and eligible counterparties as defined by the FCA, and wholesale clients as defined under section 761G of the Corpora tions Act. Credit Suisse (Hong 
Kong) Limited ("CSHK") is licensed and regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Ko ng under the laws of Hong Kong, which differ from 
Australian laws. CSHKL does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in  respect of providing 
Financial Services. Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limi ted (ABN 35 068 232 708) ("CSEAL") is an AFSL holder in Australia (AFSL 237237). In Australia, 
this material may only be distributed to Wholesale investors as defined in the Corporations Act. CSEAL is not an authorised d eposit taking institution and 
products described herein do not represent deposits or other liabilities of Credit Suisse AG, Sydney Branch. Credit Suisse AG, Sydn ey Branch does not 
guarantee any particular rate of return on, or the performance of any products described.  
This material is distributed in the European Union by Credit Suisse Bank (Europe), S.A. regulated by the Comision Nacional del Mercado de Valores.  
If this material is issued and distributed in the U.S., it is by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (“CSSU”), a member of NYS E, FINRA, SIPC and the NFA, and 
CSSU accepts responsibility for its contents. Clients should contact sales coverage and execute transactions through a Credit  Suisse subsidiary or affiliate in 
their home jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise. Inve stment banking services in the United States are provided by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) 
LLC, an affiliate of Credit Suisse Group. CSSU is regulated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under Uni ted States laws, which differ 
from Australian laws. CSSU does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in resp ect of providing 
Financial Services. Credit Suisse Asset Management LLC (CSAM) is authorised by the Securities and Exchange Commiss ion under US laws, which differ from 
Australian laws. CSAM does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing Financial 
Services.  
If this material is issued and distributed in Japan,  it is issued and distributed in Japan by Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Limited, Financial Instruments Firm, 
Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Kinsho) No. 66, a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Financial Future s Association of 
Japan, Japan Investment Advisers Association, Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association. This report has been prepared and issued for distribution in 
Japan to Credit Suisse’s clients, including institutional investors.  
This report may not be reproduced either in whole or in part, without the written permission of Credit Suisse. All trademarks, service marks and log os used in 
this document are trademarks or service marks or registered trademarks or service marks of Credit Suisse or its informat ion providers. All material presented in 
this document, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under copyright to Credit Suisse or its information providers. Cop yright © 2022 Credit Suisse Group 
AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
 