 
DISCLOSURE APPENDIX AT THE BACK OF THIS REPORT CONTAINS IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES AND ANALYST 
CERTIFICATIONS.    
 
 
 10 June 2016 
Global 
Economic Research 
 Global Money Notes #6 
Research Analysts 
Zoltan Pozsar 
 212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
   
 QE, Basel III and the Fed’s New Target Rate 
QE and Basel III have forever changed the way money markets trade. 
Changes are so fundamental that one's knowledge of markets pre -crisis may 
be a hindrance to successfully trading money markets today. And judging from 
the Fed's narrative on money markets after liftoff , policymakers too are still in 
the early stages of making sense of the numbers they see on their screens. 
Forget everything you know, and start from a blank page. Everything's in play… 
There was a time when banks deployed ma ssive amounts of balance sheet to 
arbitrage. The typical day of a money market trader involved borrowing and 
lending within and across various money markets segments both onshore and 
offshore: arbitraging small differences between fed funds and eurodollar rates 
and between various unsecured and secured (repo) rates were the norm. 
Banks' aim was to conduct arbitrage until spreads became so narrow and the 
relationship across the entire spectrum of money market rates so tight that 
arbitrage was no longer possi ble. Policing these money market relationships – 
ensuring that spreads remained tight at all times – was the name of the game. 
Policing the tightness of spreads required “endless” amounts of balance sheet. 
One can either control prices or quantities, but n ot both. Under the old regime, 
the focus was on prices and tightness. Quantities (balance sheet) were 
endless and an afterthought, and the volume of matched money market books 
that accumulated through banks’ money dealing activities – borrowing in one 
segment of the money market in order to lend in another – were massive indeed. 
Matched money market books also meant that for the largest of global banks                  
– the main arbitrageurs in the system – liquidity buffers were interbank loans.  
Liquidity was stored inside the system. 
The Great Financial Crisis taught bankers and regulators alike that "inside" 
liquidity is the least reliable when most needed. The system needed a reboot. 
Basel III tore up the old model and forced banks to hold liquidity buffers with the 
sovereign instead of banks. Liquidity is now being stored outside the system. 
Money is now less “inside” and more “outside”. 
Understanding the implications of this regime shift must be at the center of 
evaluating the performance of money markets after liftoff. Analyses that don’t do 
that lack in perspective and confuse rather than illuminate at a time of change.  
No change is more important than the choice of an alternative reference rate and 
the related choice of the Fed’s new target rate. While at the moment the OBFR 
is the only possible candidate, a recent speech by President Dudley hints that 
the Fed may be laying ground for a repo rate as the preferred alternative.  

 10 June 2016 
Global Money Notes #6 2 
QE and Basel III have euthanized interbank money markets.1 
There isn’t much happening in interbank money markets in general in a banking system 
awash with massive amounts of reserves that banks are required t o hoard in order to 
comply with new rules designed to ensure they can survive a 30-day liquidity storm. 
Compared to the past , when banks traded scarce reserves frantically to settle interbank 
payments, banks today have abundant pools of reserves and settle payments leisurely. 
There are no better tell -tale signs of this than the facts that interbank settlements occur 
much earlier in the day and intraday credit extended by the Fed is nil today (see here). 
This is in sharp contrast to the pre-crisis era, when banks had incentives to delay interbank 
payments until late in the day and drew massive volumes of intraday credit from the Fed. 
Intraday credit (daylight overdrafts) meant an increase in liabilities for the deficit banks 
(those making the payments) and an increase in excess reserves for the surplus banks 
(those receiving the payments) and the Fed intermediating between them – during the day.  
Intraday credit had to be repaid by the end of the day (before sundown) and the shifting of 
intraday credit and corresponding excess reserves from the Fed’s balance sheet onto 
banks’ balance sheet happened in the overnight fed funds market – during the night. 
Fed funds are thus overnight credit not daylight credit, and interbank credit not Fed credit… 
…or at least they were until QE and Basel III changed everything. 
Historically, the overnight interbank fed funds market was where the Fed set its policy rate, 
but with QE and Basel III taking the life out of what once was a vibrant market, the Fed will 
have no choice but to switch to a new target rate and OIS markets to a new reference rate. 
This issue of Global Mone y Notes explores the ways in which QE and Basel III have 
influenced the hierarchy and trading pattern of various money market interest rates and 
how they impact the search for an alternative reference rate and the Fed’s new policy rate. 
Its centerpiece is an interactive slide deck (see here) that guides the reader through the 
new money market lan dscape one step at a time. The deck starts with a blank page 
(literally) and explains the hierarchy between and behavior of all relevant money market 
rates in the post -QE, post -Basel III world. We do so through a careful review of each 
market participant’s balance sheet – who they lend to and who they borrow from and why. 
It is not for the faint-hearted: it runs close to 100 pages. 
The deck builds on earlier work: first came the mapping of the shadow banking system 
(see Pozsar et al, 2010); then came mapping the hierarc hy of money (see Pozsar, 2014); 
now comes mapping the hierarchy of interest rates that comes with the hierarchy of money. 
The deck’s target audience is anyone who trades money markets on a daily basis, the 
central banking community and members of the Alternative Reference Rate Committee.  
We recommend reading the slide deck one click at a time in electronic (not hard copy) 
form and on a computer screen (not a tablet device). 
Reading the deck is not essential for everyone, but do know that putting it together helped 
us understand money markets to the core and reach the conclusions summarized below. 
Money Markets after QE and Basel III 
Basel III forced banks to replace eclectic interbank portfolios with high-quality liquid assets 
(HQLA) in the form of reserves held at the Fed or Treasuries (reversed in or held outright). 
Simplicity replaced diversity. 
Basel III simplified things on the funding side, too. For an asset to qualify as HQLA, it must 
be unencumbered, which means that it can never be funded secured, only unsecured. 
                                                      
1 QE and Basel III euthanized unsecured interbank money markets, but not secured interdealer money markets. We will discuss 
trends in interdealer money markets on Page 6. 
 10 June 2016 
Global Money Notes #6 3 
Figure 1 (overleaf) shows the resulting shift in the rate pairs that banks “play off” against 
each other: the relevant pairs are no longer within and across p rivate money market 
segments but rather unsecured rates  and IOER; unsecured rates and centrally cleared 
(GCF) repo rates; and unsecured rates and the intermediate points on the Treasury curve. 
Matched book money dealing – money market funding of money market lending – is no 
longer private on both sides, but ra ther half private, half public. Banks don’t fund each 
other anymore but rather the sovereign – the U.S. Treasury or its subsidiary, the Fed. 
Figure 2 (overleaf) shows this shift in action through the matched money market books of 
the New York branches of foreign banks. The size of matched books did not change much 
since the crisis, but their asset side  is entirely different: o/n and term loans to other banks 
(fed funds and deposits, respectively) and interoffice loans are out, and HQLA (reserves) 
are in. Reverses (or reverse repos, a source of HQLA) are less important but present still.  
On the funding side too, interbank (fed funds) trades are gone and what remains are 
funding from headquarters and unsecured funding from non-bank customers. 
Basel III drove a wider wedge between the new rate pairs than the spread between the old 
pairs used to be: the spr ead between o/n rates used to be razor thin (about a basis point 
or two), but the spread between IOER and the effective fed funds rate  is 12.5 bps today. 
Why? Because banks need every penny of reserves as HQLA against short -term liabilities 
(demand for which is driven by customer liquidity needs), and since HQLA is a low -margin 
use of balance sheet and balance sheet is no longer infinite but scarce, o/n spreads have 
settled structurally wider. Furthermore, Basel III limits leverage and by extension the 
amount of balance sheet available to compress spreads – which is practically nil. 
And so, high-volume, low-margin private money dealing gave way to Basel III compliance 
through public-private money dealing at wider margins (see McCulley and Pozsar, 2014). 
Basel III also interacts with QE. 
Reserves – the quintessential byproduct of QE – are HQLA and reserves can only be held 
by banks. By extension, QE influences the composition of banks’ HQLA portfolios. 
During the initial rounds of QE, every penny of reserves added to the system were indeed 
excess – in excess of the amount banks needed to comply with reserve requirements. 
But when Basel III – and in particular, the Liquidity Coverage Ratio – went live, all reserves 
became required: not to comply with reserve requirements but with the LCR (see here). 
Banks have no incentive to either borrow or lend reserves these days. 
Banks have no incentive to borrow reserves because they already hold more than what‘s 
needed to comply with reserve requirements, and they have no incentive to lend reserves 
either because if they do their HQLA portfolios would shrink and their LCR would worsen.  
The reason why we still have a fed funds (FF) market is because Basel III does not apply 
to a small corner of the U.S. banking system – the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs).  
The FHLBs are the only banks left in the system that still have an incentive to lend to other 
banks on an unsecured basis on scale. On the flipside, the only banks that borrow from 
the FHLBs are highly rated foreign banks with an aim to arbitrage the FF -IOER rate pair 
and subject to a version of Basel III lighter than that that which applies to U.S. banks. 
As we have discussed in previous issues of Global Money Notes (see here and here) the 
small size of the FF market (about $60 billion), the small number of FF market participants 
(10 lenders and a dozen or so borrowers) and the even balance of power between the two 
sides of the FF market make the FF rate prone to trade along a suspiciously straight line. 
It appears that informal agreements between the two sides of a  small market that’s slowly 
(but surely) fading into irrelevance have more to do with where the effective FF rate trades 
than the Fed’s new operational framework or the magnetic pull of IOER (see here). 
Scrapping the FF rate as the Fed’s policy target won’t be a choice but a necessity, in our view. 
 10 June 2016 
Global Money Notes #6 4 
Figure 1: From “Inside” Liquidity to “Outside” Liquidity 
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
 
Figure 2: Money Dealing Now and Then 
New York branches of foreign banks, $ billions 
 
Source: FDIC, Credit Suisse 
 
  
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
MML MMF FF FF
(private) (private) ED ED
CD CD
CP CP
Reverses RPs
Assets Liabilities
HQLA MMF
(public) (private)
Assets Liabilities
Reserves MMF
(Fed) (private)
Reverses
(GCF)
Treasuries
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Reserves Unsecured FF FF
(Fed) (customer) ED ED
Reverses CD CD
(GCF) CP CP
Treasuries Reverses RPs
From inside liquidity…
…to outside liquidity…
…reversed in or held outright…
…and funded unsecured.
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
June 30, 2007 December 31, 2015
HQLA (reserves) FF sold Balances w/ U.S. banks Balances w/ banks offshore Reverse repos
Loans to HQ (net) FF purchased CP Deposits Loans from HQ (net)
 10 June 2016 
Global Money Notes #6 5 
No problem, you say: we have the Fed’s new overnight bank funding rate (OBFR) as an  
alternative to the FF rate. Unlike the FF market, the o/n eurodollar (ED) market frequented 
by U.S.-based banks is deeper ($250 billion versus $60 billion), more populous (hundreds 
of borrowers versus a dozen) and hence more reliable a yardstick of o/n bank funding 
conditions. In addition, the OBFR trades on top of the FF rate and also along a straight 
line, so the Fed’s operating framework must be doing something right, right? Not so fast… 
That OBFR also trades along a straight line has to do with the fact that bank funding desks 
use the FF rate as a reference point to price o/n ED deposits. Things get circular… 
Furthermore, unlike the FF rate – a yardstick of o/n onshore interbank funding conditions – 
the OBFR is a yardstick of mostly offshore (as opposed to onshore) funding conditions and 
references mostly customer-to-bank (as opposed to interbank) trades. And that’s a big deal. 
It is a big deal because switching from the FF rate to OBFR as the Fed’s policy target is 
not without a broad set of existential questions. Were that switch to happen the Fed would 
go from targeting an onshore rate to targeting an offs hore rate; from targeting an interbank 
rate to targeting a customer -to-bank rate; from an operating framework built around 
TOMOs (or temporary open market operations) to one centered around POMOs 
(permanent open market operations); and by extension, from targeting interest rates by 
fine-tuning the amount of reserves to targeting t he quantity of reserves in HQLA portfolios 
through episodic rounds of asset purchases (regulatory as opposed to quantitative easing). 
Alternative Reference Rates and Basel III 
The reasons why banks don’t trade in the o/n FF market apply to all other unsecu red 
segments of the interbank money market , including the eurodollar market. Whatever the 
volume of o/n eurodollar transactions there are no interbank trades there. Not one penny. 
And that opens up an existential can of worms for the concept of “IBOR” in general. 
IBOR stands for interbank offered rates and submissions are based on the hypothetical 
question of “where you think you could get unsecured funding from other banks”. 
From other banks… at a time when unsecured interbank markets have already faded as a 
part of the ecosystem. LIBOR curves today (to the extent that submissions reflect actual 
trades) are based exclusively on customer-to-bank and not interbank trades. 
It must be tough around the FOMC today. Your poli cy target (FF) is questionable. The 
OBFR is not a slam dunk to switch to. Benchmark (“IBOR”) curves no longer measure 
what their name implies. Only the need for change is obvious. But not the direction. 
A recent white paper of the Alternative Reference Rate Committee  (ARRC) proposed two 
alternatives to choose from: the OBFR and some o/n Treasury general collateral repo rate. 
The question of alternative reference rates and alternative policy rates ar e intertwined: 
ideally, they would be the same. So it is likely that the rate the ARRC will ultimately choose 
will also be the Fed’s new target rate. But there are problems with both alternatives. 
As discussed above, switching to the OBFR is not an easy de al (onshore versus offshore; 
interbank versus customer-to-bank; TOMOs versus POMOs; prices versus quantities). 
But switching to a repo rate won’t be simple either. In fact, it is impossible at present. 
Why? 
Because primary dealers do not have access to the  discount window and so there is no 
ex-ante mechanism in place that would enable the Fed to cap repo rates in a crisis. 
And if you can’t cap it, you can’t target it… 
That said, it would make total sense for the Fed to target an interdealer repo rate going 
forward. In fact the new (post -Basel III) world order begs for it. Banks have access to 
reserves at the Fed and reserves are the main form of HQLA they hold to survive a 30 -day 
liquidity storm as required by the LCR. In English this means that banks can bl eed liquidity 
(lose reserves) for weeks before they tap markets for liquidity or the Fed as the last resort. 
 10 June 2016 
Global Money Notes #6 6 
These massive reserve holdings – representing weeks’ worth of liquidity needs – are the 
reason why banks no longer trade liquidity among each other anymore. Everyone’s flush… 
In contrast, broker -dealers do not have access to reserve accounts at the Fed. For them 
HQLA is Treasuries reversed in through GCF repo trades or Treasuries held outright. In a 
30-day storm, broker -dealers won’t have the luxury of running down reserve balances. 
They will have to repo out HQLA (their unencumbered Treasury portfolio) from the get  go. 
In other words, dealers are flush with collateral, not reserves. And collateral ain’t money…  
On a day-to-day basis, the interdealer GCF repo market is the main market where liquidity 
gets redistributed within the dealer community (between primary and non-primary dealers).  
The volatility of the o/n GCF repo rate is similar to what the volatility o f the FF rate used to 
be when banks too were liquidity constrained, similar to the way dealers are liquidity 
constrained today. Figure  3 (overleaf) plots the behavior of the o/n GCF repo rate versus 
that of the FF rate: like electrocardiograms, flickers mean life and flatlines the opposite of 
life. The o/n GCF repo market is the only functioning money market left standing today. 
But the GCF repo market is a market where broker -dealers account for the bulk of activity 
and where banks are present only as opportunistic lenders and seldom ever as borrowers 
(banks typically lend in the GCF repo market if the o/n GCF  repo rate is above IOER and 
typically don’t borrow as repos encumber collateral, reduce HQLA and worsen one’s LCR). 
And because it is broker -dealers that do the bulk of borrowing and lending in interdealer 
markets, capping a repo target rate in a crisis is possible only if dealers too have access to 
the discount window (IOER serves as a ceiling for the o/n GCF rate only in normal times, 
not crisis times). President Dudley’s recent speech on Amelia Island arguing for discount 
window access for primary dealers should be understood in this context. In specific: 
“Now that all major securities firms in the U.S. are part of bank holding companies and are 
subject to enhanced prudential s tandards as well as capital and liquidity stress tests, 
providing these firms with access to the Discount Window might be worth exploring.” 
President Dudley’s call to emancipate the Fed from Lender of Last Resort (for banks) to 
Dealer of Last Resort (for t he system as a whole – both traditional and shadow) despite 
the spirit of the Dodd -Frank Act (which limits the Fed’s 13(3) lending authority) may signal 
the Fed’s discomfort with the OBFR as a target rate and preference for a repo rate instead. 
After all, a local interdealer repo target rate would get arou nd the global customer-to-bank 
aspects of OBFR. But then the Fed has be comfortable with a target rate that’s a funding 
rate for shadow banks, not banks – there… the devil’s ugly head popped up again.  
And even then, don’t forget that before DoLR and a repo target rate become reality, the 
Fed will have to get a lot of lawyering done in a climate that’s all but cooperative. 
Until we hear more about DoLR, do know that the OBFR is the only game in town. 
Is it essential that an alternative reference rate be capped by the Fed’s discount window? 
Most definitely. When the relationship between the FF and Libor rates broke down in 2007 
(i.e., when the par exchange rate between onshore and offshore dollars broke down)  the 
Fed had to roll out dollar swap lines to regain control of Libor (the old reference rate). 
OBFR is capped by the swap lines (see here) but if the target becomes a repo rate, the 
Fed – learning from experience – will prefer to have a mechanism for control in place… 
 10 June 2016 
Global Money Notes #6 7 
Figure 3: An 'Electrocardiogram' of the U.S. Money Market 
% 
 
Source: DTCC, Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse 
 
Figure 4: New Curves, New Relationships – Everything’s in Play… 
% 
 
Source: Federal Reserve, DTCC, The Bank of New York,  Credit Suisse 
5.0
5.1
5.2
5.3
5.4
5.5
5.6
5.7
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
FF effective (July 1st 2003 - July 1st 2004) FF effective (November 1st, 2014 - November 1st, 2015)
o/n GCF Treasury repo (January 1st, 2015 - November 30th, 2015) FF effective (July 1st, 2006 - July 1st 2007) [RHS)
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
2.00
o/n 1M 3M 6M 1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y o/n 1M 3M 6M 1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y o/n 1M 3M 6M 12M o/n 1M 3M 6M 12M o/n 1M 3M 6M 12M o/n 1M 3M 6M 12M
Banks
(HQLA curve)
Primary Dealers
(HQLA curve)
Bank Funding Curve
(unsecured)
Primary Dealers
(matched books)
Private Cash Pools
(safe asset curves)
Public Cash Pools
All yields as of May 18, 2016
IOER IOER                                                                                                                 IOER    IOER
o/n RRP                               o/n RRP                           o/n RRP
Unsecured < 30 days                                             Unsecured < 30 days
 10 June 2016 
Global Money Notes #6 8 
Rules of the Game 
The New New Testament (Basel III) comes with its own set of Ten Commandments which 
we list below and plot in Figure 4. Ignore them or face money market purgatory… 
1. Unsecured interbank markets are dead. Long live sec ured interdealer markets. The 
o/n interbank FF rate is not much of a measure of anything anymore, really. The  o/n 
interdealer GCF repo rate is the only meaningful money market rate today. 
2. Focusing on where the effective FF rate trades within the Fed’s targ et range is like 
missing the forest for the tree s. The greatest story never told is that the Fed’s target 
range is a de facto corridor for the o/n secured rates complex: the o/n RRP rate is a 
hard floor under o/n tri-party Treasury repo rates and IOER is a soft ceiling for the o/n 
GCF Treasury repo rate.2 The o/n tri -party and GCF Treasury repo rates represent 
primary dealers’ core borrowing and lending rates on the liability and asset side of 
their matched repo books, respectively. In that sense, the o/n R RP and IOER rates 
set the range within which primary dealers can make two -way markets on an o/n 
basis (the “inside” spread; see Exhibit 5 overleaf). 
3. The o/n RRP rate will always provide a hard floor under o/n tri -party Treasury repo 
rates as long as the o/n RRP facility remains full allotment. 
4. Those calling for the o/n RRP facility to be abolished (citing low utilization rates) 
should calm down and realize that o/n tri -party repos with dealers, Treasury bills 
and o/n RRPs with the Fed are substitutes. The r eason why usage of the o/n RRP 
facility has been falling lately was due to a $400 billion increase in the effective bill 
supply since the first rate hike (see here). More bills mean less need for o/n RRPs. 
That said, low usage today does not mean low usage forever. If bill supply shrinks  
and a full allotment RRP facility is not there to fill the void, the floor will leak. 
5. The IOER rate will always provide a soft ceiling for the o/n GCF repo rate. Banks with 
large reserve balances serve as opportunistic lenders in the GCF repo market and will 
always pour money into it if the o/n GCF repo rate creeps abov e IOER. For banks , 
this is a n asset swap (swapping o/n reserves for Treasuries reversed in through an 
o/n GCF repo trade) with zero impact on liquidity (LCR), leverage (SLR) or capital 
(RWA) positions. Not all banks that have access to the GCF repo market will do this 
arbitrage trade – only those banks that have built their HQLA portfolios with an eye to 
harvest the option value of reserves. These banks – and one in particular (JPM) – are 
the system’s main money dealers today. 
6. Embrace the HQLA curve: for the bank operating subsidiaries of global banks the 
HQLA curve is IOER up to the point where Treasuries start yielding more and for 
their dealer subsidiaries the HQLA curve is the GCF repo curve up to the point 
where Treasuries held outright start yielding more than Treasuries reversed in. 
7. O/n unsecured rates (OBFR) are a soft floor under o/n GCF repo rates. O/n GCF 
trades are a source of HQLA and because HQLA must be unencumbered at all 
times, they cannot be funded secured, only unsecured. Primary dealers will never 
let o/n GCF repo rates settle below OBFR ; if they did, funding HQLA reversed in via 
o/n GCF repos would be a negative carry trade (see Exhibit 6 overleaf).  
8. Closely related, for as long as banks are subject to the Liquidity Coverage Ratio and 
there are more reserves in the system than required by Regulation Q, the FF  and 
OBFR rates will always trade below IOER: as discussed above, IOER is an integral 
part of banks’ HQLA curve and banks will always price o/n funding in a way that 
makes the funding  of an o/n HQLA (“base HQLA”) a positive carry trade. The 
quantity of reserves in the system does not matter much in determining the spread 
between FF and IOER for as long as there are substantially more reserves in the 
system than what banks are required to hold for reserve requirements (about $100 
billion) and major banks are subject to the Liquidity Coverage Ratio. 
                                                      
2  All repo rates mentioned on this page refer to o/n tenors and Treasury collateral. 
 10 June 2016 
Global Money Notes #6 9 
9. The steepness of the unsecured bank funding curve beyond the 30 -day point is 
structural and reflects the price of “freedom”: three - and six-month funding have no 
HQLA requirements and with term funding banks can do anything they please. 
10. The Fed’s foreign repo pool is most definitely a policy tool. The Fed’s repos with 
foreign central banks and multilateral organizations pre-date the tri-party repo system 
and are executed on a bilateral basis. They return cash early, at 8:30 AM, in an era 
when repo trades that settle through the tri -party platform – including o/n RRPs with 
the Fed – return cash at 3:30 PM. Investors find out the rate they will e arn overnight 
at around 4:00 PM – so late because the Fed needs time to finish its daily survey of 
where dealers got funded during the day. The rate paid by the foreign repo pool is 
very close to the o/n GCF repo rate but it is not the same. Our instinct s ays that it 
matches the volume weighted average rate of o/n GCF repo trades done both 
bilaterally and on a tri -party basis and which the Fed derives from the above dealer 
survey. And so the Fed pays a market rate. But the fact that the rate on the foreign 
repo pool matches a market rate and hence does not influence interdealer repo 
rates does not mean that it does not impact things elsewhere. Since late 2014, the 
rate paid by the foreign repo pool has been “surfing” the structural widening 
between o/n GCF a nd tri-party repo rates and has been consistently yielding more 
than Treasury bills. Over this period, the foreign repo pool morphed into a superior 
alternative to bills – nothing beats o/n trades with the Fed with an 8:30 cash return 
yielding more than te rm bills. As foreign central banks traded out bills  and into the 
foreign repo pool – greased by an apparently secret removal of “ the constraints 
imposed on customers’ ability to vary the size of their investments ” – the effective 
supply of Treasury bills i ncreased by $250 billion. And since o/n tri -party Treasury 
repos, Treasury bills and o/n RRPs with the Fed are substitutes (see point 4 above), 
$250 billion in extra bills meant $250 billion worth of bids not hitting primary dealer’s 
shrinking balance sheets begging for o/n tri-party trades they cannot make, and that 
much in bids not hitting the Fed’s o/n RRP facility. If the o/n RRPs facility and 
Treasury bills are substitutes and the foreign repo pool and Treasury bills are 
substitutes as well, then the o /n RRP facility and the foreign repo pool are 
substitutes too. Both facilities are full allotment but one at an administered price and 
one at a market price, and both facilities are in the business of providing safe, short -
term assets in an era where quantities matter more than prices.3 So to reiterate, the 
foreign repo pool is a policy tool. And just like the use of metaphors from physics to 
describe how FF trades, saying that the foreign repo pool is not a policy tool when in 
fact it is confuses, rather than illuminates at a time of change. In Exhibit 4 (see Page 
7 above) the foreign repo pool is marked by a black dot – an allegory for the foreign 
repo pool as the system’s wandering black hole… 
And with all that dig in, and enjoy Money Markets after QE and Basel III…  
                                                      
3 The foreign repo pool is in a league of its own. Central bank facilities are either fixed price, full allotment (where the central bank 
sets the price and the market determines the quantity) or fixed size, variable price (where the central bank sets the size and the 
market determines the price). Oddly, the foreign repo pool is neither: its size is full allotment and its rate varies with the market 
(in fact its rate is the interdealer market rate). It is a gift wrapped in gold: giving an interdealer rate for a segment of cash pools in 
violation of the hierarchical nature of money markets, where only dealers should earn the interdealer rate and only  those private 
cash pools that are big enough to extract a pound of flesh from primary dealers. The foreign repo pool flattens the hierarchy… 
 10 June 2016 
Global Money Notes #6 10 
Figure 5: A Target Range for the o/n Secured Rates Complex 
% 
 
Source: Federal Reserve, DTCC, The Bank of New York, Credit Suisse 
 
Figure 6: A Soft Floor for o/n GCF Repo Rates 
% 
 
Source: Federal Reserve, DTCC, Credit Suisse 
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
15 16
o/n RRP (cash pools/MFs to Fed) o/n TRP (cash pools/MFs to dealers) OBFR (cash pools/MFs to bank)
EFFR (FHLBs to banks) o/n GCF (inter-dealer) IOER (banks to Fed)
↑
Hard floor and outside spread
Soft ceiling and outside spread
↓← inside spread→
Banks as opportunistic lenders
↓
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
15 16
o/n RRP (cash pools/MFs to Fed) o/n TRP (cash pools/MFs to dealers) OBFR (cash pools/MFs to bank)
EFFR (FHLBs to banks) o/n GCF (inter-dealer) IOER (banks to Fed)
↑
Soft floor to the o/n GCF repo rate
  
 
 
GLOBAL FIXED INCOME AND ECONOMIC RESEARCH 
Ric Deverell 
Global Head of Fixed Income and Economic Research 
+1 212 538 8964 
ric.deverell@credit-suisse.com 
 
GLOBAL ECONOMICS AND STRATEGY 
James Sweeney, Chief Economist 
Co-Head of Global Economics and Strategy 
+1 212 538 4648 
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com 
Neville Hill 
Co-Head of Global Economics and Strategy 
+44 20 7888 1334 
neville.hill@credit-suisse.com 
GLOBAL STRATEGY AND ECONOMICS 
Axel Lang 
+1 212 538 4530 
axel.lang@credit-suisse.com 
Jeremy Schwartz 
+1 212 538 6419  
jeremy.schwartz@credit-suisse.com 
Sarah Smith 
+1 212 325-1022 
sarah.smith@credit-suisse.com 
Wenzhe Zhao 
+1 212 325 1798  
wenzhe.zhao@credit-suisse.com 
   
US ECONOMICS 
James Sweeney 
Head of US Economics 
+1 212 538 4648 
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com 
Xiao Cui 
+1 212 538 2511 
xiao.cui@credit-suisse.com 
Zoltan Pozsar 
+1 212 538 3779  
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com  
   
LATIN AMERICA (LATAM) ECONOMICS 
Alonso Cervera 
Head of Latam Economics 
+52 55 5283 3845 
alonso.cervera@credit-suisse.com 
Mexico, Chile 
Casey Reckman 
+1 212 325 5570 
casey.reckman@credit-suisse.com 
Argentina, Venezuela 
Daniel Chodos 
+1 212 325 7708 
daniel.chodos@credit-suisse.com  
Latam Strategy 
Juan Lorenzo Maldonado 
+1 212 325 4245 
juanlorenzo.maldonado@credit-suisse.com  
Colombia, Ecuador, Peru 
Alberto J. Rojas 
+52 55 5283 8975 
alberto.rojas@credit-suisse.com 
   
BRAZIL ECONOMICS 
Nilson Teixeira 
Head of Brazil Economics 
+55 11 3701 6288 
nilson.teixeira@credit-suisse.com 
Iana Ferrao 
+55 11 3701 6345 
iana.ferrao@credit-suisse.com 
Leonardo Fonseca 
+55 11 3701 6348 
leonardo.fonseca@credit-suisse.com 
Paulo Coutinho 
+55 11 3701-6353 
paulo.coutinho@credit-suisse.com 
Lucas Vilela 
+55 11 3701-6352 
lucas.vilela @credit-suisse.com 
   
EUROPEAN ECONOMICS 
Neville Hill 
Head of European Economics 
+44 20 7888 1334 
neville.hill@credit-suisse.com 
Giovanni Zanni 
+44 20 7888 6827 
giovanni.zanni@credit-suisse.com 
Sonali Punhani 
+44 20 7883 4297 
sonali.punhani@credit-suisse.com 
Peter Foley 
+44 20 7883 4349 
peter.foley@credit-suisse.com 
Anais Boussie 
+44 20 7883 9639 
anais.boussie@credit-suisse.com 
   
EASTERN EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA (EEMEA) ECONOMICS 
Berna Bayazitoglu 
Head of EEMEA Economics 
+44 20 7883 3431 
berna.bayazitoglu@credit-suisse.com 
Turkey 
Nimrod Mevorach 
+44 20 7888 1257 
nimrod.mevorach@credit-suisse.com 
EEMEA Strategy, Israel 
Alexey Pogorelov 
+44 20 7883 0396 
alexey.pogorelov@credit-suisse.com 
Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan 
Carlos Teixeira 
+27 11 012 8054 
carlos.teixeira@credit-suisse.com 
South Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa 
Chernay Johnson 
+27 11 012 8068 
chernay.johnson @credit-suisse.com 
Nigeria, Sub-Saharan Africa 
   
JAPAN ECONOMICS  NON-JAPAN ASIA (NJA) ECONOMICS 
Hiromichi Shirakawa 
Head of Japan Economics 
+81 3 4550 7117 
hiromichi.shirakawa@credit-suisse.com 
Takashi Shiono 
+81 3 4550 7189 
takashi.shiono@credit-suisse.com 
 
Dong Tao 
Head of NJA Economics 
+852 2101 7469 
dong.tao@credit-suisse.com  
China 
Dr. Santitarn Sathirathai 
+65 6212 5675 
santitarn.sathirathai@credit-suisse.com  
Regional, India, Indonesia, Thailand 
Christiaan Tuntono 
+852 2101 7409 
christiaan.tuntono@credit-suisse.com  
Hong Kong, Korea, Taiwan 
 Deepali Bhargava 
+65 6212 5699 
deepali.bhargava@credit-suisse.com  
India, Vietnam 
Michael Wan 
+65 6212 3418 
michael.wan@credit-suisse.com  
Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines 
Weishen Deng 
+852 2101 7162 
weishen.deng@credit-suisse.com 
China 
 
 
  
 
 
Disclosure Appendix 
Analyst Certification  
I, Zoltan Pozsar, certify that (1) the views expressed in this report accurately reflect my personal views about all of the subject companies and securities and (2) no part of my compensation was, is or will be 
directly or indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this report.  
UK Referendum Disclaimer  
This material is intended for your use only and not for general distribution. This material is not intended to promote or procure a particular outcome in the UK referendum on membership of the European 
Union (the “Referendum”). Credit Suisse does not promote or endorse either campaign in the Referendum. This material does not constitute, and should not be interpreted as, a recommendation by Credit 
Suisse as to the merits of a particular outcome of the Referendum.  
Global Research Disclaimer  
References in this report to Credit Suisse include all of the subsidiaries and affiliates of Credit Suisse operating under its investment banking division. For more information on our structure, please use the following link: 
https://www.credit-suisse.com/who-we-areThis report may contain material that is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, 
country or other jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation or which would subject Credit Suisse AG or its affiliates ("CS") to any registration or licensing 
requirement within such jurisdiction. All material presented in this report, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under copyright to CS. None of the material, nor its content, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, 
transmitted to, copied or distributed to any other party, without the prior express written permission of CS. All trademarks, service marks and logos used in this report are trademarks or service marks or registered trademarks 
or service marks of CS or its affiliates. The information, tools and material presented in this report are provided to you for information purposes only and are not to be used or considered as an offer or the solicitation of an offer 
to sell or to buy or subscribe for securities or other financial instruments. CS may not have taken any steps to ensure that the securities referred to in this report are suitable for any particular investor. CS will not treat recipients 
of this report as its customers by virtue of their receiving this report. The investments and services contained or referred to in this report may not be suitable for you and it is recommended that you consult an independent 
investment advisor if you are in doubt about such investments or investment services. Nothing in this report constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a representation that any investment or strategy is suitable 
or appropriate to your individual circumstances, or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation to you. CS does not advise on the tax consequences of investments and you are advised to contact an independent tax 
adviser. Please note in particular that the bases and levels of taxation may change. Information and opinions presented in this report have been obtained or derived from sources believed by CS to be reliable, but CS makes 
no representation as to their accuracy or completeness. CS accepts no liability for loss arising from the use of the material presented in this report, except that this exclusion of liability does not apply to the extent that such 
liability arises under specific statutes or regulations applicable to CS. This report is not to be relied upon in substitution for the exercise of independent judgment. CS may have issued, and may in the future issue, other 
communications that are inconsistent with, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in this report. Those communications reflect the different assumptions, views and analytical methods of the analysts 
who prepared them and CS is under no obligation to ensure that such other communications are brought to the attention of any recipient of this report. Some investments referred to in this report will be offered solely by a 
single entity and in the case of some investments solely by CS, or an associate of CS or CS may be the only market maker in such investments. Past performance should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of future 
performance, and no representation or warranty, express or implied, is made regarding future performance. Information, opinions and estimates contained in this report reflect a judgment at its original date of publication by 
CS and are subject to change without notice. The price, value of and income from any of the securities or financial instruments mentioned in this report can fall as well as rise. The value of securities and financial instruments 
is subject to exchange rate fluctuation that may have a positive or adverse effect on the price or income of such securities or financial instruments. Investors in securities such as ADR's, the values of which are influenced by 
currency volatility, effectively assume this risk. Structured securities are complex instruments, typically involve a high degree of risk and are intended for sale only to sophisticated investors who are capable of understanding 
and assuming the risks involved. The market value of any structured security may be affected by changes in economic, financial and political factors (including, but not limited to, spot and forward interest and exchange rates), 
time to maturity, market conditions and volatility, and the credit quality of any issuer or reference issuer. Any investor interested in purchasing a structured product should conduct their own investigation and analysis of the 
product and consult with their own professional advisers as to the risks involved in making such a purchase. Some investments discussed in this report may have a high level of volatility. High volatility investments may 
experience sudden and large falls in their value causing losses when that investment is realised. Those losses may equal your original investment. Indeed, in the case of some investments the potential losses may exceed 
the amount of initial investment and, in such circumstances, you may be required to pay more money to support those losses. Income yields from investments may fluctuate and, in consequence, initial capital paid to make 
the investment may be used as part of that income yield. Some investments may not be readily realisable and it may be difficult to sell or realise those investments, similarly it may prove difficult for you to obtain reliable 
information about the value, or risks, to which such an investment is exposed. This report may provide the addresses of, or contain hyperlinks to, websites. Except to the extent to which the report refers to website material of 
CS, CS has not reviewed any such site and takes no responsibility for the content contained therein. Such address or hyperlink (including addresses or hyperlinks to CS's own website material) is provided solely for your 
convenience and information and the content of any such website does not in any way form part of this document. Accessing such website or following such link through this report or CS's website shall be at your own risk. 
This report is issued and distributed in Europe (except Switzerland) by Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, One Cabot Square, London E14 4QJ, England, which is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. This report is issued and distributed in Europe (except Switzerland) by Credit Suisse International, One Cabot Square, London E14 4QJ, 
England, which is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. This report is being distributed in Germany by Credit Suisse 
Securities (Europe) Limited Niederlassung Frankfurt am Main regulated by the Bundesanstalt fuer Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht ("BaFin"). This report is being distributed in the United States and Canada by Credit Suisse 
Securities (USA) LLC; in Switzerland by Credit Suisse AG; in Brazil by Banco de Investimentos Credit Suisse (Brasil) S.A or its affiliates; in Mexico by Banco Credit Suisse (México), S.A. (transactions related to the securities 
mentioned in this report will only be effected in compliance with applicable regulation); in Japan by Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Limited, Financial Instruments Firm, Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau 
(Kinsho) No. 66, a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Financial Futures Association of Japan, Japan Investment Advisers Association, Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association; elsewhere in Asia/ 
Pacific by whichever of the following is the appropriately authorised entity in the relevant jurisdiction: Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited, Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited, Credit Suisse Securities (Thailand) Limited, 
regulated by the Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Thailand, having registered address at 990 Abdulrahim Place, 27th Floor, Unit 2701, Rama IV Road, Silom, Bangrak, Bangkok 10500, Thailand, Tel. +66 
2614 6000, Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, Credit Suisse AG, Singapore Branch, Credit Suisse Securities (India) Private Limited (CIN no. U67120MH1996PTC104392) regulated by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India as Research Analyst (registration no. INH 000001030) and as Stock Broker (registration no. INB230970637; INF230970637; INB010970631; INF010970631), having registered address at 9th Floor, 
Ceejay House, Dr.A.B. Road, Worli, Mumbai - 18, India, T- +91-22 6777 3777, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, Seoul Branch, Credit Suisse AG, Taipei Securities Branch, PT Credit Suisse Securities Indonesia, 
Credit Suisse Securities (Philippines ) Inc., and elsewhere in the world by the relevant authorised affiliate of the above. Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited ("CSHK") is licensed and regulated by the Securities and Futures 
Commission of Hong Kong under the laws of Hong Kong, which differ from Australian laws. CSHKL does not hold an Australian financial services licence (AFSL) and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under 
the Corporations Act 2001 (the Act) under Class Order 03/1103 published by the ASIC in respect of financial services provided to Australian wholesale clients (within the meaning of section 761G of the Act). Research on 
Taiwanese securities produced by Credit Suisse AG, Taipei Securities Branch has been prepared by a registered Senior Business Person. Research provided to residents of Malaysia is authorised by the Head of Research 
for Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, to whom they should direct any queries on +603 2723 2020. This report has been prepared and issued for distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited 
investors and expert investors (each as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations) only, and is also distributed by Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch to overseas investors (as defined under the Financial Advisers 
Regulations). By virtue of your status as an institutional investor, accredited investor, expert investor or overseas investor, Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch is exempted from complying with certain compliance 
requirements under the Financial Advisers Act, Chapter 110 of Singapore (the "FAA"), the Financial Advisers Regulations and the relevant Notices and Guidelines issued thereunder, in respect of any financial advisory 
service which Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch may provide to you. This information is being distributed by Credit Suisse AG (DIFC Branch), duly licensed and regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority 
(“DFSA”). Related financial services or products are only made available to Professional Clients or Market Counterparties, as defined by the DFSA, and are not intended for any other persons. Credit Suisse AG (DIFC 
Branch) is located on Level 9 East, The Gate Building, DIFC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. This research may not conform to Canadian disclosure requirements. In jurisdictions where CS is not already registered or licensed 
to trade in securities, transactions will only be effected in accordance with applicable securities legislation, which will vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may require that the trade be made in accordance with applicable 
exemptions from registration or licensing requirements. Non-U.S. customers wishing to effect a transaction should contact a CS entity in their local jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise. U.S. customers wishing 
to effect a transaction should do so only by contacting a representative at Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC in the U.S. Please note that this research was originally prepared and issued by CS for distribution to their market 
professional and institutional investor customers. Recipients who are not market professional or institutional investor customers of CS should seek the advice of their independent financial advisor prior to taking any 
investment decision based on this report or for any necessary explanation of its contents. This research may relate to investments or services of a person outside of the UK or to other matters which are not authorised by the 
Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority or in respect of which the protections of the Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct 
Authority for private customers and/or the UK compensation scheme may not be available, and further details as to where this may be the case are available upon request in respect of this report. CS may provide various 
services to US municipal entities or obligated persons ("municipalities"), including suggesting individual transactions or trades and entering into such transactions. Any services CS provides to municipalities are not viewed as 
"advice" within the meaning of Section 975 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. CS is providing any such services and related information solely on an arm's length basis and not as an 
advisor or fiduciary to the municipality. In connection with the provision of the any such services, there is no agreement, direct or indirect, between any municipality (including the officials, management, employees or agents 
thereof) and CS for CS to provide advice to the municipality. Municipalities should consult with their financial, accounting and legal advisors regarding any such services provided by CS. In addition, CS is not acting for direct 
or indirect compensation to solicit the municipality on behalf of an unaffiliated broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, or investment adviser for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement by the 
municipality for or in connection with Municipal Financial Products, the issuance of municipal securities, or of an investment adviser to provide investment advisory services to or on behalf of the municipality. If this report is 
being distributed by a financial institution other than Credit Suisse AG, or its affiliates, that financial institution is solely responsible for distribution. Clients of that institution should contact that institution to effect a transaction in 
the securities mentioned in this report or require further information. This report does not constitute investment advice by Credit Suisse to the clients of the distributing financial institution, and neither Credit Suisse AG, its 
affiliates, and their respective officers, directors and employees accept any liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from their use of this report or its content. Principal is not guaranteed. Commission is 
the commission rate or the amount agreed with a customer when setting up an account or at any time after that. 
Copyright © 2016 CREDIT SUISSE AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
Investment principal on bonds can be eroded depending on sale price or market price. In addition, there are bonds on which in vestment principal can be eroded due to changes in redemption amounts. Care is required when investing in such instruments.  
When you purchase non-listed Japanese fixed income securities (Japanese government bonds, Japanese municipal bonds, Japanese government guaranteed bonds, Japanese corporate bonds) from CS as a seller, you 
will be requested to pay the purchase price only.  
 