 
 
 
Credit Suisse Economics  
 
Ride of the “Volkyries” 
 
 
 
If the current episode of monetary tightening were a scene from a movie,  
we’d be looking at something similar to the scene from Apocalypse Now , 
where a group of helicopters is approaching a small village on the beach  
with Wagner’s Ride of the Valkyries  beaming from the speakers. Parallels 
between central banks and helicopters are not uncommon: M ilton Friedman 
played with the theme (“helicopter drops of money”) and Chair Ben Bernanke 
earned a helicopter-themed moniker (“Helicopter Ben”). But then, consider… 
…that helicopters are just vehicles. In helicopter analogies, it’s not the vehicle, 
but their payloads that matter, and payloads can be either money or volatility… 
As we discussed in our “Volcker Moment” dispatch on February 16th (see here), 
there is a strong policy case for the Fed to inject volatility into markets in order 
to control domestic services inflation (and demand  for labor more broadly)  
through asset prices – stocks, housing, and crypto assets too. Then on April 6th, 
Bill Dudley, the former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
argued that for hikes to be effective, financial conditions have to tighten more – 
a lot more. But if the broader market expects rate hikes  to undermine growth 
and force the Fed to cut rates in 2024, financial conditions mathematically 
won’t tighten on their own. If financial conditions don’t tighten on their own, 
“the Fed will have to shock markets to achieve the desired response ”, that is, 
“it’ll have to inflict more losses on stock and bond investors than it has so far ”. 
If that wasn’t clear enough, the former vice chair of the FOMC closed by saying: 
“one way or another, to get inflation under control, the Fed will need to push 
bond yields higher and stock prices lower”. The message could not be clearer. 
A former vice chair of the FOMC arguing that the Fed needs to shock markets 
is as close as we will ever get to a former Fed policymaker endorsing the need 
for a “Volcker Moment”. And it’s good to share a conviction with Bill Dudley – 
the last time we shared a strong conviction was when he asked me to visit him 
for an interview during the summer of 2008 to join the Markets Group of FRBNY 
in response to a brief note I sent him describing my concerns about the plumbing. 
It was a formative experience: sitting across a market legend, finishing each 
other’s half sentences about shared convictions about “skeletons in the closet”. 
In today’s dispatch, we’ll explore five topics: first, the Fed call versus the Fed put; 
second, monetary heroes and anti -heroes; third, the Fed’s impossible trinity 
and what gives; fourth, the need to “invert” our thinking about recession risks; 
and fifth, the Fed’s options to inject more volatility to tighten financial conditions. 
  
13 May 2022 
Investment Solutions & Sustainability 
Global 
 
Important Information  
THIS IS NOT RESEARCH. PLEASE REFER TO THE IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES AND CONTACT YOUR CREDIT 
SUISSE REPRESENTATIVE FOR MORE DETAILS. This report represents the views of the Investment Strategy Department 
of Credit Suisse and has not been prepared in accordance with the legal requirements designed to promote the independence 
of investment research. It is not a product of the Credit Suisse Research Department and the view of the Investment Strategy 
Department may differ materially from the views of the Credit Suis se Research Department and other divisions at Credit 
Suisse, even if it references published research recommendations. Credit Suisse has a number of policies in place to promote 
the independence of Credit Suisse’s Research Departments from Credit Suisse ’s Investment Strategy-and other departments 
and to manage conflicts of interest, including policies relating to dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research . 
These policies do not apply to the views of Investment Strategists contained in this report.  
 
 
CONTRIBUTORS 
Zoltan Pozsar 
212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
  
 
 
13 May 2022  
Ride of the “Volkyries” 2 
Our aim today is to highlight the risk that we might be dealing with a Fed that 
won’t be intimidated by curve inversions and asset price corrections, but will be 
emboldened by them to do more – a Fed that pushes against a curve inversion 
by hiking more than what’s priced today to tighten financial conditions further, 
despite recession risks or perhaps even with a (covert) recession goal in mind  
in order to maintain price stability.  To understand our thought process, and  
to understand the volatility you see on your scre ens – a volatility by design that 
is a desired outcome for the Fed – please consider the following observations. 
First, as we argued here, the Fed is now in the business of writing a call option 
on risk assets  – not just stocks, but housing and crypto as well. Whether we 
think of the FOMC’s target level for the stock market and financial conditions 
as a call option or still as a put option just with a lower strike price is semantics. 
The big question of course is that if the Fed is indeed writing a call option, 
what is the level that it targets? Does the Fed want to see the S&P give up  
only a part of its post-Covid gains or all of them? Or does the Fed want to wipe off 
some of the gains that accumulated before the pandemic? More on this later… 
Second, if one of Jay Powell’s professional heroes is the legendary Paul Volcker, 
it must be that one of his professional “anti -heroes” must be Ben Bernanke,  
at least in a cyclical sense. Allow me to explain: the “art” of Quantitative Easing 
(QE) was forged under Bernanke’s stewardship, and the original aim of QE 
was to reflate in order to avoid deflation: reflating house prices, reflating stocks, 
and reflating the price level were the goals. Asset price growth was a target 
and positive wealth effects were a target t oo to generate growth and jobs. 
Looking back, QE was essentially monetary policy for the asset rich, with 
trickle-down benefits for the less wealthy. We’ve had several rounds of QE, 
and during the mo st recent round, we combined QE with fiscal policy and  
the government implemented Friedman’s notion of “helicopter drops of money”. 
Asset price inflation on the back of traditional QE, and consumption growth on 
the back of fiscal QE (helicopter money), pushed the level of demand higher, 
and the pandemic and geopolitics have pushed the level of supply lower. 
Something changed. Inflation got high. Some inflation is coming from abroad, 
but some is coming from home (services). No one knows how to slow it down, 
but one thing is blatantly obvious: fiscal QE was too much and traditional QE  
is no l onger appropriate. If the origin of QE is to lean against deflation by 
generating asset price inflation (positive wealth effects), leaning against inflation 
must involve generating asset price deflation (negative wealth effects) – the 
core of Bill Dudley’s  arguments. If the great Paul Volcker is the cyclical hero, 
the great Ben Bernanke must be the cyclical “anti-hero”. Elon Musk’s recent 
comments at the FT’s Future of the Auto summit sum up the situation well: 
when asked if his planned takeover of Twitter will end up hurting sales at Tesla,  
Musk said “right now, demand is exceeding production to a ridiculous degree ”. 
The message is quite clear: QE overstayed its welcome ; we need a round of 
negative wealth effects; we need “shock therapy”; we need a “Volcker Moment”. 
Third, a note on the Fed’s mandates. Since we first wrote about the need for a 
“Volcker Moment” one thing became quite clear from the Fed’s communications: 
the Fed has a singular mission, which is slaying inflation . Central banking with 
a multitude of mandates is a bit like the life of a working parent: it is impossible 
to deliver 110% at work, 110% at home playing with Barbies or doing dishes , 
and 110% at the tennis court as well (if you are lucky to find the time to play). 
It’s an impossible trinity, but we are trying to do our best. The same for the Fed: 
price stability, full employment, and financial stability are not possible to achieve 
all at the same time. Something has to give. The Fed appears to have chosen 
 
 
13 May 2022  
Ride of the “Volkyries” 3 
price stability as the priority: it wants slower growth and higher unemployment; 
further, tighter financial conditions mean some financial instability by definition 
– nothing systemic, but turmoil still (see tech stocks and the crypto sell-off). 
Fourth, the market is ripe with narratives about whether rate hikes and 
commodity price spikes will tip the U.S. into recession. I find it puzzling that 
some argue that the reason why there won’t be a recession is because 
household and business balance sheets (and in the case of businesses, profits) 
are so strong. I think the opposite. There can be a recession precisely because 
balance sheets are so strong, and if we follow the line of argument above, 
strong balance sheets mean the Fed needs to lean against the wind harder to 
shock demand lower. If low rates, QE, and low volatility healed balance sheets, 
the opposite will hurt balance sheets – by design. The negative wealth effect 
means pain for balance sheets. As Charlie Munger said: “ Invert. Always invert”. 
Strong balance sheets are a “cyclical bad”, not a “cyclical good”. It means more 
discipline from the Fed. More hikes and more volatility injected by the Fed  
– by design – until financial conditions tighten more and demand slows enough. 
Fifth, how is the Fed going to inject vol atility? Back to the helicopter analogy, 
Wagner’s Ride of the Valkyries full blast, the Fed has two types of buttons to 
push to release its payloads of volatility: talking tough (a string o f rate hikes,  
a string of 50 bps hikes, and maybe even 75 bps if things don’t cool down), 
and shifting from passive QT to active QT, where the Fed controls the amount 
of duration each dollar of balance sheet shrinkage delivers into the market, as 
opposed to the refu nding decisions of the Treasury. In our “ Volcker Moment” 
piece, we argued for the Fed to do the latter, but the former (verbal) strategy is 
working wonderfully for the moment. Y ields and mortgage rates are higher, 
stocks are lower, but a comment from President Daly just crossed my screen: 
*DALY: WANT TO SEE MORE TIGHTENING OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS 
So we are not quite there yet. As one astute market participant once told me: 
“volatility is the best policeman of risk assets ”. And volatility and illiquidity  
is everywhere: liquidity in Eurodollar futures is shockingly poor – “non-existent”, 
as one market participant put it. Non -existent liquidity in Eurodollar futures is 
exacerbating moves in rates markets. The market does not know what to price 
– have we priced in the peak for fed funds yet, or is the peak at 4% or 5%?   
This uncertainty is feeding volatility and a sell-off in equities and crypto assets. 
And that is a good thing… 
…from the perspective of a Fed that wants to see financial conditions tighten . 
The Fed is keeping the market on the edge. As we argued back in February  
(see here), the best thing the Fed could do to achieve its goals is to “stop talking”: 
hike 50 bps and sell $50 billion of 10-year notes the day after, and put an end 
to press conferences – to keep the market on its toes and keep ‘em guessing. 
Our message today is this: 
Consider the possibility that the Fed, on a singular mission to slay inflation, 
won’t rest in its pursuit of tighter financial conditions until yields shift higher, 
stocks fall more , and housing turns as well . The crypto sell-off is just an 
unexpected bonus, albeit one to watch for spillovers into STIR markets through 
the “par problems” of some stablecoins. Furthermore, consider the idea that  
the Fed is pursuing demand destruction  through negative wealth effects :  
if low rates, forward guidance, QE , and low volatility nurtured risk assets and 
demand by design, then hikes, constructive ambiguity, QT , and higher volatility 
will hurt risk assets and demand by design too. Finally, cons ider the idea that 
 
 
13 May 2022  
Ride of the “Volkyries” 4 
strong private balance sheets raise the risk of a recession, for they may force 
the Fed’s hand to shock risk assets more to make sure we get a recession,  
or at least a very hard landing, so that the Fed can slow down inflation enough. 
In this dance, the Fed leads the market, it does not follow it. It cannot by 
definition. That is a “ Volcker Moment” in and of itself. A Fed that is writing a 
call option of the stock market n eeds to see a deeper correction, a correction 
big enough to slow demand and push unemployment higher. We have never 
achieved a soft landing, so let’s not pretend that the fastest pace of hikes in a 
generation and an unprecedented shrinkage of the balance sheet will yield one.  
As I see it,  the risk of recession, whether it is real or merely implied by an 
inversion of the yield curve, won’t deter the Fed from hiking rates higher faster 
or from injecting more volatility to build up negative wealth effects, and signs of 
a recession might not mean immediate rate cuts to ramp demand back up… 
…cuts may have to wait until the Fed is certain that inflation is surely dead. 
Back to the level of the stock market under the Fed call. 
According to President Daly’s comments, the recent stock market correction 
and the rise in mortgage rates is “great”, but not enough (“want to see more”). 
Chair Powell also noted in his press conference that he wants to see further 
tightening in financial  conditions still. At face value, that implies that the Fed 
won’t stop shaping expectations until we see more damage to stocks and bonds. 
Rallies could beget more forceful pushback from the Fed – the new game… 
We won’t provide a target for stocks. Our disp atches are about providing a 
framework for an investor to think about all the noise and volatility that they see 
on their screens at the moment. Our message is that all the noise and volatility  
is by design and is probably welcomed by the Fed  and that the Fed will boldly 
fan more of it. What’s the Fed’s target for the S&P in light of all of the above?  
At 4,000, the Fed does not seem content, and in the grand scheme of things, 
this is where the Fed would change its tune if it would still be writing a put . 
At 3,500, we would have lost all of the post -pandemic gains in market wealth, 
but that level for stocks still feels like a put option, just with a lower strike price. 
At 2,500, we would lose not only all of the post-pandemic gains, but would eat 
into some of the pre-pandemic gains too. And if something indeed happened to 
the supply of labor post-pandemic (and some of that is wealth related), then to 
cool price pressures, maybe a pre-pandemic wealth level is appropriate indeed. 
Stocks of course are not the only egg in the proverbial wealth basket. Housing 
and crypto assets are in the basket too, and wealth declines there should determine 
how much damage will need to be done to stocks, that is, how much more 
financial conditi ons will have to tighten. It’s blatantly clear that t his is not an 
average business cycle. This is not an average inflation backdrop. And this is 
not an average hiking cycle. And this is not about whether balance sheet health 
and low debt service costs ser ve as hedges against a recession, but whether 
balance sheet health and low debt service burdens mean  much more pain  
for stock and bonds – by design – as the Fed tries to slay demand materially. 
Lastly, another image and a quote from Apocalypse Now . The below scene 
follows immediately after the helicopters released their payload on the village. 
Lieutenant Colonel Bill Kilgore surveys the village and says to a fellow soldier… 
Kilgore: Smell that? You smell that? 
Lance: What? 
Kilgore: Napalm son. I love the smell of napalm in the morning…  
 
 
13 May 2022  
Ride of the “Volkyries” 5 
Volatility is like napalm for risk assets. Consider at least the possibility that  
the extreme volatility and lack of liquidity you see in markets is by design, and 
the Fed will not be deterred by it, but rather that it will be emboldened by it in 
its singular pursuit of price stability . If an asset price correction is a desired 
outcome of hikes, and a big slowdown in growth is necessary to slay inflation , 
the more the curve inverts on the Fed, the harder it will push back against it. 
Again, if this was a “monetary motion picture”… 
…Bill Kilgore’s character played by Robert Duvall would be my perfect image 
of a monetary hero – in the cyclical sense . We need to at least start thinking 
about learning to think that the “Fed loves the smell of volatility in the morning”. 
Talk of 75 bps is like Wagner’s Ride of the “Volkyries” playing full blast… 
Chair Powell remarking at the latest press conference that “we need to look 
around and keep going if we do n't see that financial conditions have tightened 
adequately, or that the economy is behaving in ways that says […] that we're 
not where we need to be” is like the Ride of the “Volkyries” on full blast too… 
Ah, that will never happen because it sounds like a wealth grab you say… 
De-basing comes in many shapes and forms. President Roosevelt did it with gold 
– he made everyone sell gold to the Fed at $20.67 per ounce in 1933, and 
then in 1934 the government ’s price of gold was increased to $35 per ounce, 
i.e., the dollar was devalued. President Nixon closed the gold window for good. 
Chair Bernanke reflated stock prices. We see Chair Powell as trying to deflate them, 
and that he will keep pushing against rallies and curve inversions until he succeeds. 
Finally, consider the fact that the White House is backing the inflation fight… 
As President Biden remarked earlier this week, “ inflation is a challenge for 
families across the country and bringing it down is my top economic priority; 
[…] this starts with the Federal Reserve; […] I wil l never interfere with the 
Fed’s independence […] and I agree with what Chairman Powell said last week 
that the number one threat to [the economy] – is inflation”. To me, that sounds 
as if President Biden closed the “wealth window ”, much like President Nixon 
closed the gold window. President Biden’s comments this week mean that he 
announced the end of the Fed put, and endorsed the Fed call to slay inflation… 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 May 2022  
Ride of the “Volkyries” 6 
  
Additional Important Information  
This material has been prepared by the Investment Strategy Department personnel of Credit Suisse identified in this material as "Contributors" and not by Credit 
Suisse's Research Department. The information contained in th is document has been provided as general market commentary only and does not constitute any 
form of personal advice, legal, tax or other regulated financial advice or service. It is intended only to provide observatio ns and views of the Investment Strategy  
Department, which may be different from, or inconsistent with, the observations and views of Credit Suisse Research Departmen t analysts, other Credit Suisse 
departments, or the proprietary positions of Credit Suisse. Observations and views expressed herei n may be changed by the Investment Strategy Department at 
any time without notice. Credit Suisse accepts no liability for losses arising from the use or reliance on of this material. This material is not for distribution to retail 
clients and is directed exclusively at Credit Suisse’s institutional clients.  
FOR IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES on companies covered in Credit Suisse Global Markets Division research reports, please see http://www.credit-
suisse.com/researchdisclosures. To obtain a copy of the most recent Credit Suisse research on any company mentioned please contact your sales 
representative or go to http://www.credit-suisse.com/researchandanalytics.  
This material does not purport to contain all of the information that an interested party may desire and, in fact, provides o nly a limited view of a particular market. 
It is not investment research, or a research recommendation fo r regulatory purposes, as it does not constitute substantive research or analysis. This material is 
provided for informational purposes only and does not constitute an invitation or offer to subscribe for or purchase any of the products or services mentioned.  
The information provided is not intended to provide a sufficient basis on which to make an investment decision and is not a p ersonal recommendation or 
investment advice. While it has been obtained from or based upon sources believed by the trader or s ales personnel to be reliable, each of the trader or sales 
personnel and Credit Suisse does not represent or warrant its accuracy or completeness and is not responsible for losses or d amages arising from the use or 
reliance on of this material.  
Where dist ribution of this material is subject to the rules of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), it is a “solicit ation” of derivatives 
business only as that term is used within CFTC Rule 1.71 and 23.605 promulgated under the U.S. Commodity Exch ange Act (the “CFTC Rules”) where 
applicable, but is not a binding offer to buy/sell any financial instrument. The views of the author may differ from others a t Credit Suisse Group (including Credit 
Suisse Research).  
Credit Suisse is acting solely as an a rm’s length contractual counterparty and not as a financial adviser (or in any other advisory capacity including tax, legal, 
accounting or otherwise) or in a fiduciary capacity. Any information provided does not constitute advice or a recommendation to enter into or conclude any 
transaction. Before entering into any transaction, you should ensure that you fully understand the potential risks and reward s and independently determine that it 
is appropriate for you given your objectives, experience, financial a nd operational resources, and other relevant circumstances. You should consult with such 
advisers (including, without limitation, tax advisers, legal advisers and accountants) as you deem necessary.  
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("CSSEL") and Credit Suisse International ("CSI") are authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") and the Prudential Regulation Authority under UK laws, which differ from Australia n Laws. CSSEL and CSI do no t 
hold an Australian Financial Services Licence ("AFSL") and are exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporat ions Act (Cth) 2001 
("Corporations Act") in respect of the financial services provided to Australian wholesale clients (within th e meaning of section 761G of the Corporations Act) 
(hereinafter referred to as “Financial Services”). This material is not for distribution to retail clients and is directed ex clusively at Credit Suisse's professional 
clients and eligible counterparties as  defined by the FCA, and wholesale clients as defined under section 761G of the Corporations Act. Credit Suisse (Hong 
Kong) Limited ("CSHK") is licensed and regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong under the laws of Hong  Kong, which differ from 
Australian laws. CSHKL does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in  respect of providing 
Financial Services. Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited (ABN 35 068 232 708) ("CSEAL") is an AFSL holder in Australia (AFSL 237237). In Australia, 
this material may only be distributed to Wholesale investors as defined in the Corporations Act. CSEAL is not an authorised d eposit taking institution and 
products described herein do not represent d eposits or other liabilities of Credit Suisse AG, Sydney Branch. Credit Suisse AG, Sydney Branch does not 
guarantee any particular rate of return on, or the performance of any products described.  
This material is distributed in the European Union by Credit Suisse Bank (Europe), S.A. regulated by the Comision Nacional del Mercado de Valores.  
If this material is issued and distributed in the U.S., it is by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (“CSSU”), a member of NYS E, FINRA, SIPC and the NFA, and 
CSSU accepts responsibility for its contents. Clients should contact sales coverage and execute transactions through a Credit Suisse su bsidiary or affiliate in 
their home jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise. Investment banking services in the United States are provided by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) 
LLC, an affiliate of Credit Suisse Group. CSSU is regulated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under Uni ted States laws, which differ 
from Australian laws. CSSU does not hold an AFS L and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing 
Financial Services. Credit Suisse Asset Management LLC (CSAM) is authorised by the Securities and Exchange Commission under U S laws, which differ from 
Australian laws. CSAM does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in r espect of providing Financial 
Services.  
If this material is issued and distributed in Japan, it is issued and distributed in Japan  by Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Limited, Financial Instruments Firm, 
Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Kinsho) No. 66, a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Financial Future s Association of 
Japan, Japan Investment Adviser s Association, Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association. This report has been prepared and issued for distribution in 
Japan to Credit Suisse’s clients, including institutional investors;  
This report may not be reproduced either in whole or in part,  without the written permission of Credit Suisse. All trademarks, service marks and logos used in 
this document are trademarks or service marks or registered trademarks or service marks of Credit Suisse or its information p roviders. All material presented in 
this document, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under copyright to Credit Suisse or its information providers. Cop yright © 2022 Credit Suisse Group 
AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
 