 
 
Credit Suisse Economics  
 
Global Money Notes #16 
Taper and the “Mix-Capacity-Target” Trinity  
 
As we’ve discussed in our previous issue, collateral supply will soon test the  
Fed’s current operating framework . C hanges will  soon be necessary to the 
framework to ensure that o/n rates continue to p rint within the target band.  
Were o/n rates to drift outside the band  and stay there for a period, the  OIS 
curve would become volatile and steepen, jamming monetary transmission. 
This is a risk the Fed will strongly prefer to avoid, in our view. 
Taper is a source of collateral supply. Three factors determine the room to taper: 
the Fed’s preferred mix between reserves and bonds in bank’s HQLA portfolios; 
the financial system’s capacity for repo intermediation, given the mix above; 
and where o/n rates will trade relative to the target, given the capacity above. 
What will the Fed’s preferred mix be? Reserves? Bonds? Laissez-faire? 
Governor Quarles has yet to put his “brand” on global banks’ liquidity portfolios, 
but even without any additional guidance from the Fed, o/n markets are telling 
us that reserves are now scarce and that collateral is becoming excess… 
Reserves did not become scarce because of $200 billion of taper to date, but 
because of the pace of effective taper to date, which is now over $500 bil lion. 
The pace of effective taper is determined by taper plus sterilization, which are 
large-scale, liability swaps that add to collateral supply indirectly, over and above 
the amount that enters the system through taper and Treasury issuance directly. 
Some o/n rates are already printing outside the Fed’s target band. 
The Fed has a waterfall of options to ensure that o/n rates remain within target: 
reverse twist; cut the rate on the foreign RRP facility; lower the IOR rate down to 
the o/n RRP rate; end taper; launch a fixed-price, full-allotment o/n RP facility.  
In our view, under the current version of Basel III, launch ing an o/n RP facility 
is inevitable – the ultimate solution to what is a problem of excess collateral.  
Balance sheets are quantities. Quantities determine prices. 
If collateral supply exceeds the system’s capacity to create private “repo” money, 
prices have to adjust to attract more capital for balance sheet. Whether  those 
prices – o/n interest rates – will be  consistent with the Fed’s target  for the 
funds rate is the trillion dollar question. We think they won’t be – we’ll need the 
Fed’s balance sheet for that. It’s either that or control over o/n interest rates.  
THIS IS NOT RESEARCH. PLEASE REFER TO THE IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES 
AND CONTACT YOUR CREDIT SUISSE REPRESENTATIVE FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
13 September 2018 
Investment Solutions & Products 
Global 
 
Important Information  
This report represents the views of the Investment Strategy Department of Credit Suisse and has not been prepared in 
accordance with the legal requirements designed to promote the independence of investment research. It is not a product of 
the Credit Suiss e Research Department and the view of the Investment Strategy Department may differ materially from the 
views of the Credit Suisse Research Department and other divisions at Credit Suisse, even if it references published research  
recommendations. Credit Su isse has a number of policies in place to promote the independence of Credit Suisse ’s Research 
Departments from Credit Suisse ’s Investment Strategy and other departments and to manage conflicts of interest, including 
policies relating to dealing ahead of t he dissemination of investment research. These policies do not apply to the views of 
Investment Strategists contained in this report.  
 
 
CONTRIBUTORS 
Zoltan Pozsar 
212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
  
 
 
13 September 2018  
Global Money Notes #16 2 
13 September 2018  
The Fed has consistently stressed two points about balance sheet taper: 
(1) They don’t really know what is the end-point of taper. 
(2) They’ll look for market signs to know when to stop taper. 
Signs from what market? Overnight markets… 
Operationally, central banks have two main jobs: to backstop the financial system in a crisis, 
and to ensure that overnight (o/n) interest rates print within the target band. Lose your 
ability to control o/n interest rates, and y ou lose control over monetary conditions .       
Lose control over monetary conditions, and the OIS curve becomes volatile and steeper. 
In a post-Basel III financial order, there are enough problems with monetary transmission. 
Large and recurring increases in Libor -OIS and Libor-Libor cross-currency bases are 
jamming the Fed’s monetary signals considerably. Consider, for example, the fact that 
those in need of U.S. dollar funding in London, Frankfurt, Zurich or Tokyo are at times 
paying three extra rate hikes’ worth of premia when they borrow in the FX swap market.  
Dollar “singularity” – parity between the price of term dollars onshore and offshore –             
is already gone (see here). Volatility around OIS is the last thing we need to ad d to that.  
If volatility in Libor-OIS and cross-currency bases is here to stay – and we think that it is –
ensuring that to o/n rates stay within the band should take on heightened importance. 
We need to understand how the evolution of the Fed’s balance sheet taper impacts      
o/n rates because the Fed never had a hiking cycle like the one we are trading today. 
The Fed is engaged in a game of monetary juggle – doing three things at the same time: 
(1) It’s hiking, i.e. it is raising the floor under o/n rates. 
(2) It’s sterilizing reserves via large-scale liability swaps (see here).1 
(3) It’s retiring reserves via tapering the balance sheet. 
Hikes are flattening the OIS cu rve. Sterilization widens money market spreads to OIS. 
Taper widens spreads to OIS too, and it also pressures the Treasury term premium higher. 
To make things even more complicated, the U.S. Treasury is also murking the picture. 
The regime of safe asset sh ortages is over. We are now in a safe asset glut  regime, 
where the excess supply of bills keeps the effective floor under o/n interest rates higher 
than the floor targeted by the Fed with the rate administered through the o/n RRP facility. 
How to think about o/n markets and taper? We’ve organized our analysis into four parts. 
Part one reminds that the Fed’s preference for reserves over bonds in global banks’ 
HQLA portfolios remains unknown and is a wildcard in the market’s big taper debate . It 
also explains why reserves are special in a regime where balance sheet for repo isn’t 
limitless and why o/n rates will drift outside the target band as collateral supply increases. 
Part two discusses taper to date. Having established in part one that reserves are special, 
part two explains that it’s not just taper that matters for o/n rates but any balance sheet 
operation that swaps reserves for collateral and such operations also include sterilization. 
The effective pace of taper – collateral injection by the Fed to date – is over $500 billion.  
Part three lists the options the Fed can choose from to defend the top of its target band 
as increased collateral supply pressures o/n rates higher. Finally, part four concludes. 
                                                   
1 Large-scale asset swaps ( LSLS) refer to the swapping of reserves for other liabilities on the Fed’s balance sheet. 
We have referred to large -scale asset swaps as “sterilization” before (see here). Large-scale asset swaps are one 
way to neutralize reserves that have been injected to the system through large-scale asset purchases (LSAP). 
 
 
13 September 2018  
Global Money Notes #16 3 
13 September 2018  
Part I – Taper and First Principles 
There are three factors that determine the room to taper: 
(1) What should be the mix between reserves versus bonds in HQLA portfolios? 
(2) What is the system’s capacity for repo intermediation, given the mix above. 
(3) Where do o/n rates print relative to the Fed’s target, given the capacity above. 
The mix question ultimately comes down to this:  whether banks’ dominant liquid asset is 
reserves or bonds determines how banks fund th eir outflows. If they have reserves,            
they just run down their balances at the Fed. One bank’s reserves decline, another’s go up. 
Money markets don’t feel a thing for these flows all settle on the Fed’s balance sheet. 
If banks have bonds – Treasuries – the picture i s completely different. Banks can’t use 
bonds to settle. They have to turn bonds into reserves to settle. There are two ways, and 
only two ways to do that  – sell bonds or repo them. Both drain liquidity from other banks 
and drains show up in o/n markets. The greater the drain, the greater the stress and the  
greater the stress, the greater the pressure on the Fed to step in and lend in o/n markets. 
Thus, the reserves-to-bonds mix in HQLA portfolios  is a matter of fundamental import .       
It determines how long before banks call the Fed for liquidity during an episode of stress, 
and, as we will discuss in more detail below , it also determines how much flexibility        
banks have in their HQLA portfolios to keep o/n repo rates within the Fed’s target band. 
The Fed’s preference for the mix is a wildcard. If the Fed prefers reserves, taper ends soon. 
If bonds, taper has more room to go, subject to collateral supply and dealer’s repo capacity. 
The capacity question comes down to how much balance sheet the financial system has 
for repo intermediation. Consider that for the past decade – since the financial crisis – 
banks have been net lenders in the repo market. They haven’t been borrowing at all in  
the repo market because they were flush with reserves and didn’t need the extra liquidity. 
But if you un -do QE, and take reserves away from banks and give them bonds instead         
– and, in essence, that’s what taper is – you’re making bank portfolios less liquid and 
you’re forcing banks to go into the repo market to raise reserves to settle on the margin. 
Banks going from repo lenders to repo borrowers, will have a major market impact… 
Over the past five years, all the concerns about the lack of repo balance sheet have been 
coming from hedge funds and asset managers. If banks become net borrowers in the 
repo market, we will feel that. It took four years to  add $200 billion in tri-party repo 
capacity, and that was with a significant $800 billion help from prime money fund reform. 
Adding the next $200 billion won’t be that easy. But even if it will be, $200 billion won’t be 
enough – the quarterly pace of taper is almost as much, not to mention coupon issuance. 
If the repo market chokes on the reserves-for-bonds swap that the Fed’s taper represents, 
o/n GC repo and tri-party repo rates will drift outside the Fed’s target band, in our view. 
And that brings us to the  target question: would it be acceptable to the Fed if repo rates  
– including the secured o/n funding rate (SOFR) – printed outside the target band? 
Probably not. 
While it’s true that the Fed doesn’t target re po rates – SOFR is a reference rate, not a 
target rate – repo rates do influence where the fed funds rate, the official target, trades.  
And if repo rates are headed outside the band, the o/n fed funds rate is headed outside 
the band too, and the Fed will have to adjust its operating framework to prevent that. 
Mix-capacity-target – the “trinity” that ultimately determines the Fed’s room to taper… 
 
 
13 September 2018  
Global Money Notes #16 4 
13 September 2018  
Part II – Taper and Shadow Taper 
Now that we’ve established why reserves are special and how increased collateral supply 
in a regime where balance sheet for repo is no longer limitless can come into conflict with 
the Fed’s target range  for the fed funds rate and the o/n rates complex more broadly ,  
we next turn to another fundamental question: how much have we tapered to date? 
$200 billion? You’re wrong. The effective pace of taper is running at over $500 billion. 
There is a big difference between $200 billion and $500 billion and the reason for that 
difference is sterilization. Sterilization is a fundamental concept that we first discussed in 
Sterilization and the Fracking of Reserves. It refers to large-scale liability swaps, whereby 
the Fed lets institutional client flows drive the swapping of reserves into other liabilities like 
the Treasury General Account (TGA) or the o/n RRP facility with foreign central banks. 
Everyone knows that at the system level, taper is just a swap o f reserves for bonds         
(i.e., collateral). So is sterilization… 
When the Treasury issues $400 billion in bills to ramp up its TGA balance at the Fed,       
in the money market, reserves get swapped for collateral – in this case, Treasury bills. 
When foreign central banks move $250 billion from banks to the foreign RRP facility, in 
the money market, reserves get swapped for collateral  – in this case, Tre asury notes, 
which foreign central banks “reverse in” from the Fed and then lend on to the market. 
When reserves are swapped for collateral, reserves get drained – liquidity gets sterilized. 
EM central banks know exactly what that means – for them, sterilization is a daily exercise.      
But for the Fed and for most STIR strategists, sterilization is just a sideshow, it seems. 
Far from being just some pimple on the Fed’s balance sheet, the TGA account and the 
foreign RRP facility are crucial determinants of how much room there is to taper ,          
and it’s $300 billion less than you believe. Sterilization is far more important than taper. 
What’s the difference between J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. keeping $400 billion in a 
reserve account at the Fed and Treasury keeping $400 billion in the TGA at the Fed?  
J.P. Morgan has traders that will lend those reserves into dislocations in money markets, 
but Treasury does not. J.P. Morgan’s reserves are active – ready to be deployed at the 
right price. Treasury’s are passive – they’ve been shackled; they’ve been sterilized… 
As reserves get sterilized, markets clear differently. 
The difference in the flows generated by  a central bank – like the RBA (see here) – that 
lends its FX reserves in the FX swap market directly, and one that keeps its FX reserves 
“under the mattress” in the foreign RRP facility, is this: the former’s FX swap trades settle 
by banks shifting reserves between their accounts at the Fed and the settlement of these 
FX swap trades have zero impact on o/n markets; the latter’s trades sterilize reserves and 
if the central bank then lends on to the market the Treasuries it reversed in from the Fed, 
the market will repo those Treasuries to get the cash to lend in the FX swap market. 
Unlike the first example, the second example has a measurable impact on o/n markets. 
You use reserves to settle. You repo bonds to get reserves to settle. Repo rates react… 
Figure 1 shows the current run-rates of taper and shadow taper. Sterilization matters!        
Taper swaps reserves for collateral directly. Sterilization swaps reserves for other liabilities 
which adds to colla teral supply indirectly. But collateral is collateral whichever way it 
enters the financial system. Reserves are now scarce. Collateral is becoming excess… 
In the next section, we present a list of operational measures that we expect the Fed to 
take as reserves scarcity becomes more pressing and the top of the target band is tested. 
 
 
13 September 2018  
Global Money Notes #16 5 
13 September 2018  
Part III – Operation Waterfall 
Overnight markets have been telling us that reserves are becoming increasingly scarce .     
We haven’t seen in years o/n GC rates printing meaningfully above the IOR rate on days 
when bills and coupons settle. Spikes in the o/n GC rate were limited to quarter-ends, 
and the fact that settlement days can push o/n GC rates above IOR is the clearest proof        
of our mantra that reserves are now scarce and collateral is becoming increasingly excess.  
Overnight markets will continue to tighten for the remainder of this year, and as they do, 
the Fed’s current operating framework will be tested. The Fed has a waterfall of options: 
(1) reverse twist; 
(2) cut the foreign RRP rate, or cap the foreign RRP facility; 
(3) cut the IOR rate until it converges with the o/n RRP rate; 
(4) end balance sheet taper prematurely; and 
(5) unveil a fixed-price, full-allotment o/n RP facility. 
We present the Fed’s strategic options in t his specific order as we believe these options 
go from least to most drastic and least to most complex to communicate and implement. 
Each one of these options works its way t hrough the financial system differently ,         
and understanding what each does is essential to trade their announcement successfully. 
Option one, reverse twist. Twisting is the simplest way to lower the pressure on o/n rates. 
A reverse twist is just an asset swap, whereby the Fed sells longer-term Treasuries from 
the SOMA portfolio a nd buys say one month bills on the open market. The curve would 
steepen but that’s a price worth paying to enhance your ability to control overnight rates. 
A reverse twist is balance sheet neutral and would leave the Fed’s liability mix unchanged. 
Option two, cut the foreign RRP rate, or cap the facility by introducing counterparty caps. 
Like a reverse twist, this option is balance sheet neutral too, but unlike a reverse twist, 
this option works on the liability side of the Fed’s balance sheet. By adjusting the terms of 
the facility, the Fed could incentivize foreign central banks to go back in the bill market. 
Bills would get massively bid and as foreign central banks settle their bill purchases, 
reserves would increase in the banking system – sterilization in reverse, pure and simple... 
Figure 2 shows that foreign central banks keep $250 billion in the foreign RRP facility.  
Figure 3 shows that during the second quarter of 2018, it paid 2 bps more than IOR!  
$250 billion flooding back into the bill market would have a meaningful market impact :  
bill yields would fall, o/n rates would trade more within the target band, and the FOMC 
would have $250 billion more room to taper and more time to think abo ut the future.         
In our view, cutting the rate on the foreign RRP facility or capping the facility would be the 
most effective way to address the pressure on o/n rates. But the Fed hasn’t done it (yet).  
Why? 
We can only speculate, but one reason cou ld be that the Fed was very hush -hush about 
uncapping the facility – we have yet to see a release or speech about when it happened – 
and so it’s probably tricky to re -cap the facility. But the Fed can still do it, and, if it does, 
it’ll probably be very hush -hush about it again. Just as we have first learned about the 
growth of the usage of the foreign RRP facility from the weekly H.4.1 release , we’ll 
probably learn about ch anges to its terms from a massive decline in its usage through 
continued vigilance in tracking the H.4.1 release. Fed watching is a respectable job again. 
 
 
13 September 2018  
Global Money Notes #16 6 
13 September 2018  
Option three, cut the IOR rate further  – the Fed’s preferred method  of dealing with the 
pressure on o/n rates. Cutting the IOR rate works through two channels. 
First, cutting IOR lowers the spread reserves pay relative to bills, and so incentivizes banks 
to trade reserves for bills on the margin. Has this happened since the Fed has cut IOR?  
No, it has not. 
According to the Fed’s weekly H.8 release, since the IOR cut in June, banks have bought 
only $10 billion in Treasuries. Looking at it on a seasonally adjusted or unadjusted basis 
does not help; neither does looking at large versus small or foreign versus U.S. banks. 
Second, cutting IOR increases the spread o/n GC repos pay relative to reserves, and so 
incentivizes banks to trade reserves for o/n GC repos, i.e. to lend more in the repo market. 
Have banks been lending more in the o/n GC repo market since the Fed has cut IOR?  
Some, but not a lot. 
According to the Fed’s H.8 release, since the IOR cut in June, banks increased their 
lending in the GC repo market by $35 billion. That’s not nothing, like the bills they bought, 
but it’s some. But the o/n GC market is big – $400 billion, so $35 billion didn’t do much. 
Thus, cutting IOR works either by pulling bill yields lower, or pushing o/n GC rates lower. 
Both are perfectly fine approaches to tackle pressures on the o/n fed funds target rate. 
But 5 bps didn’t do the trick. More cuts will be necessary… 
As the Fed cuts IOR further, what will banks prefer, bills or GC repos? Repos. Why? 
Because repos yield better and return cash earlier than bills. Bills are a step-down relative 
to reserves and o/n GC repos are a step up relative to reserves. It’s really a no-brainer… 
Importantly, whether IOR cuts work through the bill  market or the o/n GC repo market, 
what they effectively do is flatten the distribution of reserves across the banking system – 
when a bank buys a bill or does repos, it expends reserves and another bank gains them. 
In this sense, option three is different from option two: option two adds reserves through 
reverse-sterilization, but option three doesn’t; it attempts to re-distribute existing reserves. 
What is the potential scale of re-distribution that can be achieved by cutting IOR further? 
On that front, there is one important detail to consider. 
According to FICC’s GSD member directory (see here), there are only 25 banks  in the 
financial system that have a pipe into the o/n GC repo market, and the reserve hoards of 
these banks determines the maximum scale of re -distribution that can be achieved. 2 
Figure 4 shows that the combined reserve holdings of these banks is about $900 billion.  
Only a fraction of these reserves will move. 
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the patrician of the o/n GC universe, and as we’ve  
noted in our previous issue, we have serious doubts that this bank will take part in the    
re-distribution experiment. Citibank, N.A., is another example – the reserves share of its 
HQLA portfolio is relatively low, so we wouldn’t expect it to reverse in more collateral. 
That leaves just under $600 billion of reserves in the hands of banks that can lend in the 
o/n GC repo market – at most. How much of this $600 billion will be lent is up to each of 
these banks’ unique social circumstance. We doubt that more than $100 billion will move, 
and in the context of bill supply, coupon issuance and taper, $ 100 billion does not seem 
sufficient to offset the dynamics that will pressures o/n repo rates in the coming months. 
                                                   
2 What you are looking for are names with the word “bank” or “branch” in their name with access to the GCF market. 
 
 
13 September 2018  
Global Money Notes #16 7 
13 September 2018  
If further IOR cuts won’t do the trick, what happens next? 
The Fed can go back two steps and re-consider “tsiwting” (reverse twisting) or capping the 
foreign RRP facility. If it doesn’t, limits to the effectiveness of the IOR strategy will reveal 
a lot about globally active banks’ demand for reserves. If banks don’t want to take part in 
redistribution at any price, we’ll know that banks’ demand curve for reserves is very steep.  
Steep means scarce. Scarce means expensive. Expensive means above target… 
Even if the Fed goes all in and cuts the IOR rate all the way down to the o/n RRP rate    
– i.e., it converges the floor rate to the basement rate – the fundamental question of how 
the Fed intends to police the top of the target range for the o/n fed funds rate remains.  
Ultimately, converging IOR with the RRP rate will necessitate the launch of a fixed -price, 
full-allotment o/n RP facility to police the top of the target range, but as we’ve argued in 
our previous issue, the political, educational and operationa l cost of introducing  a new 
facility is such that the Fed likely won’t launch until all alternatives have been exhausted. 
Option four is the last alternative before the launch of a fixed -price, full-allotment o/n RP 
facility, which is to say that i f the redistribution strategy doesn’t work, the Fed will try 
preservation – “pickling” reserves for the “collateral winter” by prematurely ending taper… 
Option five, launching a fixed-price, full allotment o/n repo (RP) facility is inevitable.     
This is the facility that will be necessary to police the top of the Fed’s o/n target range if 
the Fed chooses to converge the IOR rate with the o/n RRP rate, as discussed above. 
The o/n RP facility is also the ultimate solution to the problem of excess collateral… 
Unlike any of the previous options, the launch of an o/n RP  facility would increase the 
size and also the volatility of the Fed’s balance sheet and add new reserves to the system. 
Option one was a simple asset swap – a reserves-neutral swap of coupons for bills – that 
would steepen the curve but on the flipside help the Fed re-gain control over o/n rates. 
Option two was a liability swap that added reserves but didn’t increase the balance sheet. 
It would steepen the curve but extra reserves would tighten money market spreads to OIS. 
Option three was an attempt to re-distribute and learn about banks’ demand for reserves. 
It would tighten GC repo spreads to OIS and would only impact the curve on the margin. 
Option four is a state of “stop, pickle and reconsider” – a massive curve flattener. 
Option five is the inevitable – less than four years after the end of taper, the Fed would be 
increasing its balance sheet once again through the monetization of excess co llateral via  
a fixed-price, full allotment o/n RP facility so that o/n rates stay within the target band. 
Basel III increased the safety of the system, but it reduced its balance sheet flexibility.  
Balance sheets are quantities. 
Quantities determine prices. 
If collateral supply exceeds the system’s capacity to create private money, prices have to 
adjust to attract more capita l for balance sheet for repos . Whether those prices –         
o/n interest rates – are consistent with the Fed’s target range is the trillion dollar question. 
If private balance sheets can’t monetize collateral at rates consistent with the Fed’s  
target band for o/n interest rates, the Fed’s public balance sheet will have to do that. 
If it doesn’t, the market loses confidence in the Fed’s ability to control monetary conditions 
– the OIS curve becomes volatile and steeper, making monetary transmission noisier... 
 
 
13 September 2018  
Global Money Notes #16 8 
13 September 2018  
Conclusions 
In a growing economy, a banking system that’s subject to the current version of Basel III  
has to hold more and more HQLA over time. More lending, more outflows, more HQLA . 
Paraphrasing Chairman Bernanke , over time, the economy ’s and households’          
currency needs will “grow into” the Fed’s balance sheet, reducing the need for shrinkage. 
Households’ currency needs are not the only force driving the ecosystem to grow into the 
Fed’s balance sheet. Banks’ reserve needs for HQLA purposes represent a similar need. 
Currency is money for people. Reserves are money for banks.  Under Basel III, bank’s 
demand for reserves, and the Fed’s balance sheet are rising. The bigger the economy, the 
bigger the banking system . The bigger the banking system, the bigger its outflows.      
The bigger its outflows, the bigger its HQLA needs.  The bigger its HQLA needs , the 
bigger its reserve needs. The bigger its reserve needs, the bigger the Fed’s balance sheet. 
As we’ve said before, over time, central banks under Basel III are “pre-ordained” to add 
lots of reserves periodically through permanent open market operations (POMOs). If they 
wouldn’t add reserves for a decade, reserves would shrink as a share of global banks’ 
HQLA portfolios, which would get bond-heavy relative to outflows, even without taper. 
To have an inform ed debate about the end -point of taper, we need clarity on the Fed’s 
preferred mix of reserves versus bonds in large, globally-active banks’ HQLA portfolios. 
Here is what our analysis implies for the mix, and hence, the room to taper. 
Collateral is not money. 
It used to be , in a financial system built around just -in-time liquidity, but the essential         
pre-requisite of just-in-time liquidity provision are limitless balance sheets in o/n markets.  
If collateral isn’t money, then bond-heavy HQLA portfolios cannot be palatable from the 
perspective of the liquidity and soundness of a dollar-based, global banking system. 
Collateral does go up in value in a crisis, and collateral -rich banks can sell their holdings, 
but unless the Fed is the buyer of collateral, sales will drain liquidity from another bank. 
Collateral velocity is picking up , yes, but increased velocity is tightening, not easing, 
financial conditions! Financial conditions are measured by o/n rates, the price of money , 
not velocity, and increased collateral supply and velocity are why markets are tightening. 
A system of just -in-time liquidity provision, where balance sheet for repo is limitless and 
collateral is money once again is not in sight unless Treasuries are exempt from the eSLR 
or centrally cleared repo becomes a reality. None of these are likely in the near term. 
If that remains the case, option five is inevitable. 
Deficits, sterilization, and taper are all additions of collateral and the removal of reserves  
that bring forward the day of reckoning: the coming of the Fed… as an o/n repo lender. 
We now know the motto of the American West: 
“…trust everyone, but brand your cattle”. 
What is the Fed’s philosophy ab out global banks liquidity portfolios? Reserves? Bonds? 
Laissez-faire? We still don’t know, and clarity on that question is essential, in our view. 
And if we don’t know, we cannot have strong views about the end-point of taper either.  
The Fed’s “brand” of liquidity will be a key factor determining the path of repo rates  and 
the end-point of taper. Even if the Fed doesn’t require banks to shift liquidity from bonds 
to reserves, capacity constraints in repo markets will force an earlier end to taper than the 
market expects. If the Fed prefers more HQLA in reserves, taper ends even sooner… 
 
 
13 September 2018  
Global Money Notes #16 9 
13 September 2018  
Figure 1: Taper and Shadow Taper 
$ billions 
 
Source: Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse 
 
Figure 2: The Usage of the o/n RRP Facility of Foreign Central Banks at the Fed 
$ billions 
 
Source: Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse 
(600)
(500)
(400)
(300)
(200)
(100)
0
100
200
15 16 17 18
Reserves sterilized via TGA and the foreign RRP facility Reserves "retired" via taper Effective reserve drain
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
Foreign central banks, o/n RRPs ($bn) Foreign central banks, deposits ($bn)
 
 
13 September 2018  
Global Money Notes #16 10 
13 September 2018  
 
Figure 3: The RRP Facility of Foreign Central Banks is an Expensive Liability 
percent 
 
Source: Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse 
 
Figure 4: Reserve Balances of Banks That Can Lend in the o/n GC Repo Market 
$ billions, as of 2018Q2 
 
Source: Call reports, Credit Suisse 
 
 
 
 
  
(0.25)
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
2.00
2.25
15 16 17 18
IOR o/n RRP [UST] o/n FRP [UST, 8:30 AM cash return] (average) 1m bill o/ FRP - 1m bill spread (average)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
JPM U.S., other Country Name
Credit Suisse
Rabobank
NAB
MUFG
Mizuho
LBBW
SC
HSBC
Barclays
SG
Natixis
CA
BNP
BNS
RBC
CIBC
BMO
Netherlands
Australia
Japan
Germany
U.K.
France
Canada
WF
BoNY
Citi
BoA
JPM
 
 
13 September 2018  
Global Money Notes #16 11 
13 September 2018  
Additional Important Information  
This material has been prepared by the Investment Strategy Department personnel of Credit Suisse identified in this material as 
"Contributors" and not by Credit Suisse's Research Department. The information contained in this document has been provided 
as general market commentary only and does not constitute any form of personal advice, legal, tax or other regulated financial 
service. It is intended only to provide observations and views of the Investment Strategy Department, which may be different 
from, or inconsistent with, the observations and views of Credit Suisse Research Department analysts, other Credit Suisse 
departments, or the proprietary positions of Credit Suisse. Observations and views expressed herein may be changed by the 
Investment Strategy Department at any time without notice. Credit Suisse accepts no liability for losses arising from the use of 
this material.  
This material does not purport to contain all of the information that an interested party may desire and, in fact, provides o nly a 
limited view of a particular market. It is not investment research, or a research recommendation for regulatory purposes, as it 
does not constitute substantive research or analysis. The information provided is not intended to provide a sufficient basis on 
which to make an investment decision and is not a personal recommendation or investment advice. While it has been obtained 
from or based upon sources believed by the trader or sales personnel to be reliable, each of the trader or sales personnel an d 
Credit Suisse does not represent or warrant its accuracy or completeness and is not responsible for losses or damages arising 
from the use of this material.  
This communication is marketing material and/or trader commentary. It is not a product of the research d epartment. This 
material constitutes an invitation to consider entering into a derivatives transaction under U.S. CFTC Regulations §§ 1.71 an d 
23.605, where applicable, but is not a binding offer to buy/sell any financial instrument. The views of the autho r may differ 
from others at Credit Suisse Group (including Credit Suisse Research).  
This material is issued and distributed in the U.S. by CSSU, a member of NYSE, FINRA, SIPC and the NFA, and CSSU 
accepts responsibility for its contents. Clients should co ntact analysts and execute transactions through a Credit Suisse 
subsidiary or affiliate in their home jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise.  
This material is provided for informational purposes and does not constitute an invitation or offer to subscribe for or purchase 
any of the products or services mentioned.  
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("CSSEL") and Credit Suisse International ("CSI") are authorised by the Prudential 
Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduc t Authority ("FCA") and the Prudential Regulation Authority under 
UK laws, which differ from Australian Laws. CSSEL and CSI do not hold an Australian Financial Services Licence ("AFSL") 
and are exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporat ions Act (Cth) 2001 ("Corporations Act") in respect 
of the financial services provided to Australian wholesale clients (within the meaning of section 761G of the Corporations Ac t) 
(hereinafter referred to as “Financial Services”). This material is not for distribution to retail clients and is directed exclusively at 
Credit Suisse's professional clients and eligible counterparties as defined by the FCA, and wholesale clients as defined unde r 
section 761G of the Corporations Act. Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Lim ited ("CSHK") is licensed and regulated by the Securities 
and Futures Commission of Hong Kong under the laws of Hong Kong, which differ from Australian laws. CSHKL does not 
hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporati ons Act in respect of providing Financial 
Services. Investment banking services in the United States are provided by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, an affiliate o f 
Credit Suisse Group. CSSU is regulated by the United States Securities and Exchange Com mission under United States laws, 
which differ from Australian laws. CSSU does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under 
the Corporations Act in respect of providing Financial Services. Credit Suisse Asset Management LLC (CS AM) is authorised by 
the Securities and Exchange Commission under US laws, which differ from Australian laws. CSAM does not hold an AFSL and 
is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing Financial Service s. Credit 
Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited (ABN 35 068 232 708) ("CSEAL") is an AFSL holder in Australia (AFSL 237237). In 
Australia, this material may only be distributed to Wholesale investors as defined in the Corporations Act. CSEAL is not an 
authorised deposit taking institution and products described herein do not represent deposits or other liabilities of Credit Suisse  
AG, Sydney Branch. Credit Suisse AG, Sydney Branch does not guarantee any particular rate of return on, or the performance 
of any products described.  
This report may not be reproduced either in whole or in part, without the written permission of Credit Suisse. Copyright © 20 18 
Credit Suisse Group AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
 