 
DISCLOSURE APPENDIX AT THE BACK OF THIS REPORT CONTAINS IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES AND 
ANALYST CERTIFICATIONS.   
CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES RESEARCH & ANALYTICS BEYOND INFORMATION® 
 Client-Driven Solutions, Insights, and Access 
 
Global Money Notes # 1 
 
 
 
The Money Market Under Government Control 
The Fed’s new Reverse Repo (RRP)  facility co uld get big – very big – as 
interest rates start to rise, despite what Fed officials have been saying.  The 
facility has been trending around $150bn, roughly 1/20 th of the level of bank 
reserves. 
A much larger RRP facility – think north of a trillion – would represent the end -
point of an evolution that began before the crisis, when large dealer repo books 
stood between institutional cash pools and leveraged carry trade investors to… 
after the crisis , when  bank balance sheets were expanded by both reserve 
assets and deposit liabilities created by QE to… 
the future, when government-only money funds grow to hold large volumes of 
RRPs as assets and issue fixed-NAV shares (money) to institutional cash pools.  
What are institutional cash pools? Think corporate trea suries and the cash 
desks of asset managers  and FX reserve managers . The ir demand for short-
term, money-like assets has had a strong secular growth for several decades.  
New regulations have constrained some investors in terms of what they can 
buy, and many institutions, in terms of what they can (profitably) issue. 
History shows that w hen financial innovation occurs or rules change, the least 
constrained players grow. 
In contrast to banks and dealers that face various charges on capital and 
balance sheet, and prime funds whose shares have lost “moneyness” due to 
regulation, government funds are relatively unconstrained. 
They will likely grow, fed by a n RRP facility  that may grow much larger and 
become a permanent f ixture of the financial system. In our view , t his would  
herald the arrival of an era of financial “RRPression” in the US money market 
where the sovereign dominates and dealers play a supporting role – the inverse 
of the pre-crisis state of affairs. 
While this shift would undoubtedly reap massive fi nancial stability benefits, the 
main reason  why the RRP facility might need to get much bigger is not financial 
stability related, but rather revolves around the Fed’s potential inability to control 
short-term interest rates in an era where Basel III  and banks satiated with 
excess reserves hinder monetary transmission.     
Why pay attention to this plumbing stuff? 
Because the infrastructure of markets determines which trades can profitably be 
done, and which institutions will grow in importance over time. 
This piece marks a return to our prior focus on shadow banking and the global 
financial system (see references at the end).  
 
 
 
Research Analysts 
Zoltan Pozsar 
212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
James Sweeney 
212 538 4648 
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com 
 
07 May 2015 
Economics Research 
http://www.credit-suisse.com/researchandanalytics 
  
07 May 2015 
Global Money Notes # 1  2 
Circumstances rule central banks. And the current circumstances include new regulations, 
banks satiated with reserves, and institutional cash pools that are still large and growing. 
Institutional cash pools, the short -term debt portfolios of asset managers and corporate 
treasuries, have experienced strong secular growth in recent decades . Since 2000, t hey 
have grown from $1tn to $7tn. Their ascent has played a key role in shaping the global 
financial system. In particular, i t drove the rise of wholesale funding markets  on the one 
hand and carry trading on the other and the associated rise in the fragility of the system.1  
The 2008-2009 crisis marked a structural shift in how the money demand of cash pools is 
intermediated. Intermediation shifted from private balance sheets to the balance sheet of  
the sovereign . The untold story behind the changes in the money market since 2008  is 
policymakers’ struggle to find a permanent home for the money demand of cash pools in a 
financially stable manner that is also consistent with control over short-term interest rates.  
From Private Carry to Public Carry 
Before 2008, broker-dealer balance sheets had virtually unlimited elasticity and were the 
main source of short-term debt supply, with $4.5 trillion in repos outstanding at the peak. 
Broker-dealers “manufactured” these short -term assets by financing (predominantly) 
"safe," long-term assets such as US Treasuries and agency RMBS for leveraged bond 
portfolios. They reused these securities through their matched repo books for their own 
funding. Cash pools held dea ler repos directly or indirectly through money funds  (see 
Exhibit 1). 
Exhibit 1: Pre-Crisis System of “Private Carry” and “Private Money Dealing” 
Cash pools’ direct and indirect holdings of repo 
(private carry)
"Carry Trading" "Money Dealing"
Bond Portfolios Broker-Dealers
  Repo
Money Funds
(prime/government)
Cash Pools
Bonds Repo Repo $1 NAV $1 NAV
Repo
(matched books)
Repo
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
After the crisis, dealers’ repo books sh rank, and the Fed became the ma rginal source of 
supply of short-term assets through its $2.8 trillion increase in bank reserves.  The Fed 
“manufactured” short-term assets by purchasing US Treasuries and agency RMBS and 
paying for them with newly created reserves.  
Operationally, quantitative easing (QE) involves four parties: the Fed, dealers, banks, and 
asset managers. The Fed purchases bonds from asset managers through dealers. Bond 
owners are credited with bank deposi ts. Bond owners’ bank balance sheet s increase on 
both sides: assets rise in the form of reserves; liabilities rise in the form of deposits.2  
Meanwhile, the crisis brought about a massive decline in dealers’ repo liabilities. This was 
initially due to crisis deleveraging, but was later enforced by regulation (Basel III). 
                                                 
1  See "Institutional Cash Pools and the Triffin Dilemma of the US Banking System" by Zoltan Pozsar (IMF, 2011). 
2  If the Fed had bought bonds from banks directly, deposits (M1) would not have risen, because one form of bank assets (bonds) 
would simply offset another (reserves). 
07 May 2015 
Global Money Notes # 1  3 
Exhibit 2: Tectonic Shifts in the US Money Market 
Short-term sovereign claims substitute dealer repos to accommodate the secular trend growth of cash pools, $ trillion 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
Securities Out (Fed eligible collateral) Reserves plus short-term U.S. Treasuries
 
Source: Federal Reserve, U.S. Treasury, Haver Analytics®, Credit Suisse 
As the level of dealer repos fell, the level of reserves rose. The increase in reserves drove 
an increase in deposits and other bank liabilities. The Fed’s massive new carry trade was 
an offset to shrunken leveraged bond portfolios. As the “shadow banking system” 3 shrank, 
the traditional banking system grew. 4  Exhibit 2 shows the uninterrupted growth of 
institutional cash pools along their pre -crisis trend. The growth in reserve balances and 
Treasury bills (government money -like assets) took off when repo collapsed. Interestingly, 
government short-term debt appears to be riding the same trend as repo did pre-crisis.  
Money dealing – the high volume, low margin business of borrowing and lending in short -
term markets – is being done by various entities in Exhibits 1 and  3. But what is clear is 
the migration of the money -dealing function  from dealer balance sheets to traditional 
banks and the migration of carry trading from bond portfolios to the Fed’s balance sheet.  
In these charts we see alternative systems of intermediated flows from savers to 
borrowers. Compared to the pre-crisis state of affairs, t he role of borrower shifted from the 
private sector (bond portfolios earning profits from private carry trades) to the public sector 
(the Fed’s “seigniorage” revenues/profits from its public carry trades).  
Regulatory reform since the crisis enshrined these changes. Broker -dealers’ footprint as 
money dealers permanently shrank, as costs became prohibitive. 
But the new rules made money dealing costly for banks too.  
 
                                                 
3  We define shadow banking as "money market funding of capital market lending." See "Bagehot was a Shadow Banker" by Perry 
Mehrling, Zoltan Pozsar, James Sweeney and Daniel Neilson (INET, 2013) 
4 NB: This is a one example of the many important offsetting phenomena which characterize the financial system.  
07 May 2015 
Global Money Notes # 1  4 
Exhibit 3: Post-Crisis System of “Public Carry” and “Public Money Dealing” 
Cash pools’ indirect holdings of reserves 
Deposits
(public carry)
(matched books)
Bonds Reserves Reserves Deposits
(public carry)
$1 NAV
CD CD
CP CP
Federal Reserve U.S. Banks
(matched books) (prime)
Bonds Reserves Reserves Repo Repo $1 NAV
Cash Pools
Federal Reserve Foreign Banks Money Funds Cash Pools
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
However, because o nly banks can hold reserves , the banking system is stuck with the 
new regulatory costs of money dealing. D epressed net interest margins and returns on 
equity are the result – along with a banking system resolute to minimize these  drags. This 
structural shock to the profitability of the banking system is a likely impetus to change. 
As always , changes will involve arbitrage. Not an arbitrage of Basel III (which is near -
impossible due to the new accord’s scope and invasiveness) , but of the spirit of the 
Federal Reserve Act, by allowing access to Fed liabilities t o entities the Act does not 
permit to hold reserves. 
This arbitrage will intertwine the balance sheet s of the Fed and money funds . A rapidly 
growing and ultimately permanent RRP facility will be the link, in an awkward “marriage” of 
necessity intended to help the Fed maintain precise control of short-term interest rates. 
Basel III Disrupts Arbitrage 
Exhibit 4 shows several shor t-term interest rates: the Fed’s interest on excess  reserves 
(IOER), the federal funds rate, the overnight (Fed) reverse repo (RRP) rate, the overnight 
GC repo rate, and the overnight AA financial commercial paper rate. 
Some market participants have no choice but to lend money to banks at rates less than 
the Fed pays in IOER. This shows that the Fed’s interest rate on excess reserves (IOER) 
has not been an effective floor to short-term interest rates.  
The reasons for that require some key institutional details. 
Banks were force-fed the excess reserve balan ces created by QE. They did not demand 
those reserves, and so are satiated with them. The actual holding of reserves is highly 
uneven across banks, with the largest US banks (and in particular the two clearing banks) 
holding a disproportionate share, and foreign banks holding the rest (see Exhibit 5). 
Regulations make it costly for banks to hold reserves, limiting their appetite to pay up for 
funding. Reserves count against banks’ leverage caps, and the largest US banks have to 
hold 6% capital against them – that’s 6% capital against riskless arbitrage trades earning 
slivers of basis points in spread and involving  what is considered  the safest possible 
counterparty. For US banks there is a further FDIC fee increasing costs even further.  
 
07 May 2015 
Global Money Notes # 1  5 
The interaction bet ween reserves satiation and regulation means the Fed’s control over 
short-term interest rates may be less than it used to be. Because reserves are the 
marginal supply of short -term assets post -crisis and because cash pools can hold these 
reserves only indi rectly through the balance sheet of banks, banks maintain absolute 
control over what share of IOER flows through to cash pools and – by extension – the 
extent to which higher IOER rates (once the Fed begins to hike) will flow through to 
financial conditions more broadly. 
The Fed new reverse repo (RRP) facility regains control over short -term interest rates by 
allowing money funds to bypass banks and invest cash with the Fed directly ( see Exhibit 
6). Think of it as a buffer in case banks intent on minimizing  the post-crisis costs of money 
dealing fail to pass on higher rates to their funding providers. 
It can also be thought of as direct access to the Fed’s balance sheet for “shadow banks .” 
This is the arbitrage of the spirit of the Federal Reserve Act we mentioned above. 
An arbitrage because the Act allows reserve accounts to be held only by traditional banks. 
But as banks became bottlenecks in the monetary transmission process a broader access 
to the Fed’s balance sheet became necessary. This was possible on ly through arbitrage – 
the creation of quasi reserve accounts for shadow banks in the form of RRPs. 
Exhibit 4: Basel III Disrupts Arbitrage, Clogs Monetary Transmission 
% per annum 
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
13 14 15
FF effective o/n RRPs GCF repo AA financial CP IOER
 
Source: Haver Analytics®, Credit Suisse 
 
07 May 2015 
Global Money Notes # 1  6 
Exhibit 5: Excess Reserves Burden Predominantly G-SIBs 
Excess reserves, $ trillion 
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
Total Banks by type U.S. banks by name
U.S. banks NY branches of foreign banks JPM WFB BoA SST BoNY Citi GS HSBC MS
 
Source: Call Reports, Haver Analytics®, Credit Suisse 
 
Exhibit 6: Enter the RRP Facility – Unclogging Monetary Transmission 
Streamlining the money dealing process and getting around the depressed funding rates offered by banks.  
Bonds RRPs RRPs $1 NAV
$1 NAV
$1 NAV
(public carry)
Federal Reserve Money Funds
(matched books)
CD CD
CP CP
Money Funds
(matched books) (prime)
Bonds Reserves Reserves Repo Repo $1 NAV
(public carry)
Federal Reserve Banks Cash Pools
Cash Pools
"Carry Trading" "Money Dealing"
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
 
 
07 May 2015 
Global Money Notes # 1  7 
The Money Dealing Hot Potato 
The RRP facility is policymakers’ latest attempt to creat e a redoubtable money market. So 
far, the overnight RRP facility has helped firm up short-term interest successfully. 
But maintaining control over short -term interest rates as policy is tightening will be  
challenging if the RRP facility does not grow significantly. As d iscussed above, banks 
might not pass on higher interest rates to their funding providers. If they don’t, cash pools 
will attempt to leave banks and look for higher -yielding RRPs. G etting the size of RRP 
issuance right is tricky: a s we have emphasized, when ever one component of short -term 
markets grows or shrinks, something will have to offset it.  
Exhibit 7 shows the money dealing function being passed around like a hot potato. Before 
the financial crisis, broker-dealers practiced money dealing through a matched book repo. 
However, dealers eventually facilitated so much risk transformation that it exposed the 
system to fire sale and run risks. Later, banks became the dominant money dealers , 
funding massive volumes of maturity transformation on the balance sh eet of the Fed . 
While this change reduced risks of private maturity transformation, reforms made it so 
costly for banks that the Fed’s ability to control short-term interest rates came into question.  
Eventually, we expect a massive and permanent overnight RRP facility, with  government-
only money funds emerging as the ultimate home of money dealing.  Money market funds 
in many ways are anathema to central bankers. But to regain control over short -term 
interest rates they deal with them directly: the “marriage” of necessity will occur.  
Exhibit 7: In Search of a Home 
The total volume of money dealing conducted by various intermediaries over time, $ trillion  
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
Broker-Dealers
(repos funding private carry trades)
Banks
(reserves funding the Fed's carry trades)
Money funds
(RRPs funding the Fed's carry trades)
Pre-Crisis (2007Q2) Today (2014Q4) Tomorrow? (2016Q4)
... and ultimately from banks to 
government-only money funds.
Money dealing migrates
from dealers to banks...
 
Source: Federal Reserve, Haver, Credit Suisse 
Of course, this is n ot the Fed’s stated policy script .  A ccording to the latest minutes, the 
FOMC intends the RRP facility to be a temporary feature and “expects that it will be 
appropriate to reduce the capacity of the facility soon after it commences policy firming.”  
07 May 2015 
Global Money Notes # 1  8 
We disagree . The facility has already evolved in ways that are in consistent with the 
FOMC’s initial goals . Its size is now limited, but the latest FOMC minutes suggest a 
potential suspension of the cap during lift-off (albeit on a temporary basis). 
Exhibit 8 illustrates the migration of money dealing to government-only money funds in this 
possible future state of the world. New rules force banks, dealers, and prime funds to 
shrink their short-term issuance. G overnment-only fund s, in contrast, are relatively 
unconstrained; we think they will grow and become the key “money dealers” in the system. 
A much larger or full allotment RRP facility could make this happen. 
Exhibit 8: Will the Fed Respond to Bulging Demand?  
Regulatory constraints all point toward a dramatic supply response from the Fed.  
↓ ↓
↓
↓
↑
Federal Reserve
No regulatory constraints.
Private Money Dealing
(public carry)
(public carry)
(public carry)
G-SIFI surcharges (Fed)
RRPs ↑ - ?
Caps on RRPs
Money fund
reforms (SEC)
$1 NAV
CP
Foreign Banks
CD
Cash PoolsMoney Funds
(matched books) (prime)
$1 NAVBonds Reserves Reserves Repo Repo
(matched books)
CP
U.S. Banks
Only product availability constraints.(self-imposed by the FOMC)
quarterly average accounting.
Cash Pools
Federal Reserve
Basel III, FDIC fees,
Basel III, IHC (Fed),
CD
Federal Reserve Money Funds
(government-only)
$1 NAV↑
Public Money Dealing
Cash Pools
Bonds Reserves Reserves Deposits Deposits↓
Bonds RRPs $1 NAV
 
Source: Credit Suisse 
US banks, the New York branches of foreign banks, and prime funds have good reasons 
to pare their money-dealing activities.  
Capital timetables for both US and non -US banks are ramping up with the phase -in of the 
Basel III accord’s capital conservation buffers and countercyclical capital buffers , as well 
as Fed’s G-SIB5 surcharges starting to get phased in 2016 and ramping up through 2019. 
A major US bank recently announced plans to shed $100 billion in non -operating deposits 
(and an equivalent amount of reserves) - just weeks after it emerged that it was the only 
US bank with a capital shortfall ($20 billion short once G-SIB surcharges are factored in).   
Since raising more capital without shedding low margin money dealing would dilute the 
bank’s RoE, it opted to reduce its money-dealing activities by trying to shed non-operating 
deposits by imposing fees on them or by engaging in a dialogue with clients to move them.   
                                                 
5  G-SIB = Global Systemically Important Bank 
07 May 2015 
Global Money Notes # 1  9 
A bank can only reduce its reserve holdings by shifting them – and their dilutive burden – 
to another bank. Only the Fed can extinguish reserves and non-operating deposits, either 
by shrinking its balance sheet or by increasing the RRP facility.  
Unless this happens, i ncentives will increase for banks to chase excess reserves off their 
balance sheet s via im posing fees on deposits and/or offering depressed rates on t heir 
liabilities just as the Fed is hiking rates. The New York branches of foreign banks – which 
collectively hold just over $800 billion in reserves – will soon join US banks in trying to 
shrink their money dealing activities as the Fed will require them to establish separately 
capitalized intermediate holding companies and face more stringent leverage reporting 
requirements. Both will raise the burden of money dealing for foreign banks. 
These are major factors which could complicate the Fed’s attempt to raise interest rates.  
Furthermore, t he SEC’s money market reforms mandate that  institutional class prime 
funds float their net asset value ( NAV) by October 2016 . Government-only money funds  
may retain a stable NAV . This will incentivize cash pools to reall ocate from prime to 
government-only funds. New rules end prime funds as we know them: going forward, 
prime funds will be viewed as a short-term yield product, not a short-term liquidity product. 
Cash pools’ reallocati on from institutional -class prime to go vernment-only funds has 
already begun. It is getting an early tailwind from the voluntary conversion of prime money 
funds into government-only money funds by several large asset managers. 
Exhibit 8 shows cash pools crowding into government -only money funds  – the only 
balance sheets in the financial ecosystem not subject to new regulatory constraints.  
A very large supply of RRPs will be ne eded to accommodate the demand  for government 
fund liabilities from cash pools . Potential alternatives, such as Treasury bills and dealer 
repo, are unlikely to grow meaningfully  unless the US Treasury makes dramatic changes 
to its debt management strategy or the bite of Basel III is reduced, which is unlikely.   
In the extreme, the RRP facility could facilitate shifting the  funding of the entire Fed 
portfolio onto the balance sheet of government -only money funds. This would help reduce 
reserve balances back to pre -crisis levels sooner than the market thinks, a nd enable the 
Fed to achieve its aim to get back to its old operat ing regime of targeting the level of the 
fed funds rate (as opposed to targeting a target range for the fed funds rate at present).  
In this sense, if IOER is a magnet, the RRP facility is a dam, keeping excess reserves 
outside of the banking system and on  the balance sheet of money funds . This could help 
interbank markets return to normalcy and provide a safe r way to absorb the money 
demand of institutional cash pools compared with the pre-crisis shadow banking system.  
Swapping excess reserves for RRPs on a large scale is unlikely to do anything dramatic to 
the flow of long -term credit in the economy. If RRPs are uncapped and demand for them 
soars, all that will happen (as a matter of double-entry bookkeeping) is that bank balance 
sheets will shrink and government money fund balance sheets will grow in equal amounts. 
As reserves are swapped for RRPs, cash pools ’ holdings switch from bank liabilities to 
government-only money fund liabilities. About the only major change in this configuration 
is that more of the profits from money dealing will flow to money funds and less to banks.  
The only link to the real economy in these chains is through the SOMA portfolio’s Treasury 
and RMBS holdings, the funding of which is unaffected by swapping reserves for RRPs . If 
anything, it would only get cheaper as RRPs pay only a fraction of the 25 bps offered on 
excess reserves, boosting the Fed’s remittances (seigniorage revenues) to the Treasury. 
 
07 May 2015 
Global Money Notes # 1  10 
Between Monetary Control and a Small Balance Sheet 
Once again, we emphasi ze the nature of the financial ecosystem, where any new growth 
or reduction prompts an offset elsewhere – “for every action there is a reaction.” 
Fed RRPs, Treasury bills, and dealer repos are close substitutes and forms of money .  
The crisis showed that their relative supplies matter. 
Perhaps markets will not be permitted to determine that again in our lifetimes.  
If this is the case, we will have to adapt to a sovereign that’s going to be a larger and more 
active (or rather, more activist) participant in the wholesale money market than before.  
This implies that the sovereign may cho ose to accommodate some share of the growing 
money demand of cash pools on its balance sheet if it deems the volume of private or 
shadow money creation to be excessive and posing a risk to financial stability.  
Accommodating some share of cash pools’ money demand through a rising and 
permanent stock of RRPs would be similar to a  central bank increasing the supply of 
currency to accommodate the growing money demand of households as the  economy 
grows – a basic feature of all monetary systems.   
We make little fuss about  accommodating currency demand  along a trend , perhaps 
because we are more familiar with the image of central banks accommodating the money 
demand of households than with t he image of central banks accommodating the money 
demand of institutional cash pools by issuing RRPs. Economically they are the same.   
If the Fed’s balance sheet never shrinks much, cash pools will have migrated from funding 
broker-dealers (pre -crisis) to  funding the sovereign (post -crisis). The composition of the 
money fund complex will have shifted from mostly prime (pre -crisis) to mostly government-
only money funds (post -crisis). And the supply of short-term assets will have shifted from 
mostly shadow – or private – money (pre-crisis) to mostly public money (post-crisis).  
And as the sovereign replaces banks and shadow banks as the dominant borrower in the 
wholesale money markets, risks to financial stability will decrease (as more money will be 
public a nd less will be private) . And the Fed will have delivered on its financial stability 
mandate not by vigilance over systemic risks, but by increasing the supply of public money 
through its balance sheet. This echoes the 1940s experience, which left US banks  with 
large holdings of Treasury bills, and without any major crises for several decades.  
The size of bank holding companies, and hence their profits a nd RoEs, are checked by 
global capital, liquidity, funding and leverage  rules, which have reduced balance sheet 
elasticity. As intermediaries are less flexible in their ability to furnish elastic currency , 
someone else will have to do it instead – and that won’t be Bitcoin but the sovereign.  
The secular rise of cash pools coincided with the three -decade trend toward lower interest 
rates. Although m any investors target certain yield and return levels because of 
institutional arrangements, low yields did not eventually lead to sufficient issuance in long -
term debt to steepen yield curves and attract savings ou t of cash pools  (which were 
targeting short -term paper ) and into intermediate and long -term debt. Perhaps the 
elasticity of dealer balance sheet before the crisis served to supply the leverage (via repo) 
to target higher returns in a low yield world (as an alternative to higher long-term issuance).  
One long-term development, then, that could come from restrained balance sheets would 
be increased long-term issuance, increased long -term all-in yields for credit products, and 
a migration of savings toward lon ger-term securities. There are some signs of this already 
happening. And regulation may encourage this too. For example, new rules are forcing 
many banks to term out their debt issuance, increasing the supply of long-term credit.  
 
07 May 2015 
Global Money Notes # 1  11 
In the meantime, however , we think government issuance is more likely to satisfy the 
demand of cash pools, not a large increase in long -term credit that drives up the yields 
and attractiveness of longer -term securities (traditionally “bonds”) relative to short -term 
securities (traditionally “money”).  
For the Fed to get back to targeting a level for the fed funds rate , it will have to come to 
terms with the institutional realities of the modern financial ecosystem. Specifically: 
 Wholesale money demand is a structural feature of th e system, not an aberration 
that can be eliminated by forcing banks to term out their funding. 
 Institutional cash pools , not households, are the dominant sources of funding  in 
the US money markets. 
 The shadow banking system exists parallel to the banking system. 
 The economy’s critical funding channel is hybrid: deposits yes, but also secured 
repos issued either by broker-dealers or – if not – by the Fed through RRPs.  
To paraphrase Herodotus “circumstances rule central banks; central banks do not rule 
circumstances.” The Fed must seek the correct monetary policy stance, including the right 
size and composition of its balance sheet, in world of great change and complexity. 
The r educed elasticity of bank and broker -dealer balance sheets  amid the still-growing 
money demand of institutional cash pools represent the defining challenge to the system.  
Interest rates matter, and quantities do too.   
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
07 May 2015 
Global Money Notes # 1  12 
References: 
Pozsar, Zoltan, “The Rise and Fall of the Shadow Banking System,” Moody’s 
Economy.com (July, 2008) 
Wilmot, Jonathan, Sweeney, James, Klein, Matthias and Lantz, Carl, “Long Shadows,” 
Credit Suisse (May, 2009) 
Pozsar, Zoltan, Adrian, Tobias, Ashcraft Adam and Boesky, Hayley, “Shadow Banking,” 
FRBNY (July, 2010) 
Pozsar, Zoltan “Institutional Cash Pools and the Triffin Dilemma of the US Banking 
System,” IMF (August, 2011) 
Sweeney, James and Wilmot, Jonathan, “When Collateral Is King,” Credit Suisse  
(March, 2012) 
Mehrling, Perry, Pozsar, Zoltan, Sweeney, James and Neilson Dan “Bagehot Was a 
Shadow Banker,” INET (November, 2013) 
Sweeney, James, “Liquidity Required: Reshaping the Financial System,” Credit Suisse 
(November, 2013) 
Pozsar, Zoltan, “Shadow Banking: The Money View”, US Treasury (July, 2014) 
Pozsar, Zoltan , “An Atlas of Money Flows in the Global Financial Ecosystem,”  
US Treasury (July, 2014) 
Pozsar, Zoltan, “A Macro View of Shadow Banking,” INET (January, 2015) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GLOBAL FIXED INCOME AND ECONOMIC RESEARCH 
Ric Deverell 
Head of Global Fixed Income and Economic Research 
+1 212 538 8964 
ric.deverell@credit-suisse.com 
 
GLOBAL ECONOMICS AND STRATEGY 
James Sweeney, Chief Economist 
Co-Head of Global Economics and Strategy 
+1 212 538 4648 
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com 
Neville Hill 
Co-Head of Global Economics and Strategy 
+44 20 7888 1334 
neville.hill@credit-suisse.com 
GLOBAL STRATEGY AND ECONOMICS 
Zoltan Pozsar 
+1 212 538 3779  
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
Wenzhe Zhao 
+1 212 325 1798  
wenzhe.zhao@credit-suisse.com 
Axel Lang 
+1 212 538 4530 
axel.lang@credit-suisse.com 
Jeremy Schwartz 
+1 212 538 6419  
jeremy.schwartz@credit-suisse.com 
   
US ECONOMICS 
James Sweeney 
Head of US Economics 
+1 212 538 4648 
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com 
Jay Feldman 
+1 212 325 7634 
jay.feldman@credit-suisse.com 
Dana Saporta 
+1 212 538 3163 
dana.saporta@credit-suisse.com 
Xiao Cui 
+1 212 538 2511 
xiao.cui@credit-suisse.com 
   
LATIN AMERICA (LATAM) ECONOMICS 
Alonso Cervera 
Head of Latam Economics 
+52 55 5283 3845 
alonso.cervera@credit-suisse.com 
Mexico, Chile 
Casey Reckman 
+1 212 325 5570 
casey.reckman@credit-suisse.com 
Argentina, Venezuela 
Daniel Chodos 
+1 212 325 7708 
daniel.chodos@credit-suisse.com  
Latam Strategy 
Juan Lorenzo Maldonado 
+1 212 325 4245 
juanlorenzo.maldonado@credit-suisse.com  
Colombia, Ecuador, Peru 
Alberto J. Rojas 
+1 212 538 4125 
alberto.rojas@credit-suisse.com 
   
BRAZIL ECONOMICS 
Nilson Teixeira 
Head of Brazil Economics 
+55 11 3701 6288 
nilson.teixeira@credit-suisse.com 
Daniel Lavarda 
+55 11 3701 6352 
daniel.lavarda@credit-suisse.co 
Iana Ferrao 
+55 11 3701 6345 
iana.ferrao@credit-suisse.com 
Leonardo Fonseca 
+55 11 3701 6348 
leonardo.fonseca@credit-suisse.com 
Paulo Coutinho 
+55 11 3701-6353 
paulo.coutinho@credit-suisse.com 
   
EUROPEAN ECONOMICS 
Neville Hill 
Head of European Economics 
+44 20 7888 1334 
neville.hill@credit-suisse.com 
Christel Aranda-Hassel 
+44 20 7888 1383 
christel.aranda-hassel@credit-suisse.com 
Giovanni Zanni 
+44 20 7888 6827 
giovanni.zanni@credit-suisse.com 
Sonali Punhani 
+44 20 7883 4297 
sonali.punhani@credit-suisse.com 
Mirco Bulega 
+44 20 7883 9315 
mirco.bulega@credit-suisse.com 
   
EASTERN EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA (EEMEA) ECONOMICS 
Berna Bayazitoglu 
Head of EEMEA Economics 
+44 20 7883 3431 
berna.bayazitoglu@credit-suisse.com 
Turkey 
Carlos Teixeira 
+27 11 012 8054 
carlos.teixeira@credit-suisse.com 
South Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa 
Alexey Pogorelov 
+44 20 7883 0396 
alexey.pogorelov@credit-suisse.com 
Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan 
Nimrod Mevorach 
+44 20 7888 1257 
nimrod.mevorach@credit-suisse.com 
EEMEA Strategy, Israel 
Chernay Johnson 
+27 11 012 8068 
chernay.johnson @credit-suisse.com 
Nigeria, Sub-Saharan Africa 
Mikhail Liluashvili 
+44 20 7888 7342 
mikhail.liluashvili@credit-suisse.com 
    
   
JAPAN ECONOMICS  NON-JAPAN ASIA (NJA) ECONOMICS 
Hiromichi Shirakawa 
Head of Japan Economics 
+81 3 4550 7117 
hiromichi.shirakawa@credit-suisse.com 
Takashi Shiono 
+81 3 4550 7189 
takashi.shiono@credit-suisse.com 
 
Dong Tao 
Head of NJA Economics 
+852 2101 7469 
dong.tao@credit-suisse.com  
China 
Dr. Santitarn Sathirathai 
+65 6212 5675 
santitarn.sathirathai@credit-suisse.com  
Regional, India, Indonesia, Thailand 
Christiaan Tuntono 
+852 2101 7409 
christiaan.tuntono@credit-suisse.com  
Hong Kong, Korea, Taiwan 
 Deepali Bhargava 
+65 6212 5699 
deepali.bhargava@credit-suisse.com  
India 
Michael Wan 
+65 6212 3418 
michael.wan@credit-suisse.com  
Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines 
Weishen Deng 
+852 2101 7162 
weishen.deng@credit-suisse.com 
China 
 
 
 
Disclosure Appendix 
Analyst Certification  
The analysts identified in this report each certify, with respect to the companies or securities that the individual analyzes, that (1) the views expressed in this report accurately reflect his or her personal views 
about all of the subject companies and securities and (2) no part of his or her compensation was, is or will be directly or indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this report.  
 
 
References in this report to Credit Suisse include all of the subsidiaries and affiliates of Credit Suisse operating under its investment banking division. For more information on our structure, please use the following link: 
https://www.credit-suisse.com/who_we_are/en/This report may contain material that is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, 
country or other jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation or which would subject Credit Suisse AG or its affiliates ("CS") to any registration or licensing 
requirement within such jurisdiction. All material presented in this report, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under copyright to CS. None of the material, nor its content, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, 
transmitted to, copied or distributed to any other party, without the prior express written permission of CS. All trademarks, service marks and logos used in this report are trademarks or service marks or registered trademarks 
or service marks of CS or its affiliates. The information, tools and material presented in this report are provided to you for information purposes only and are not to be used or considered as an offer or the solicitation of an 
offer to sell or to buy or subscribe for securities or other financial instruments. CS may not have taken any steps to ensure that the securities referred to in this report are suitable for any particular investor. CS will not treat 
recipients of this report as its customers by virtue of their receiving this report. The investments and services contained or referred to in this report may not be suitable for you and it is recommended that you consult an 
independent investment advisor if you are in doubt about such investments or investment services. Nothing in this report constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a representation that any investment or 
strategy is suitable or appropriate to your individual circumstances, or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation to you. CS does not advise on the tax consequences of investments and you are advised to contact 
an independent tax adviser. Please note in particular that the bases and levels of taxation may change. Information and opinions presented in this report have been obtained or derived from sources believed by CS to be 
reliable, but CS makes no representation as to their accuracy or completeness. CS accepts no liability for loss arising from the use of the material presented in this report, except that this exclusion of liability does not apply to 
the extent that such liability arises under specific statutes or regulations applicable to CS. This report is not to be relied upon in substitution for the exercise of independent judgment. CS may have issued, and may in the 
future issue, other communications that are inconsistent with, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in this report. Those communications reflect the different assumptions, views and analytical 
methods of the analysts who prepared them and CS is under no obligation to ensure that such other communications are brought to the attention of any recipient of this report. Some investments referred to in this report will 
be offered solely by a single entity and in the case of some investments solely by CS, or an associate of CS or CS may be the only market maker in such investments. Past performance should not be taken as an indication 
or guarantee of future performance, and no representation or warranty, express or implied, is made regarding future performance. Information, opinions and estimates contained in this report reflect a judgment at its original 
date of publication by CS and are subject to change without notice. The price, value of and income from any of the securities or financial instruments mentioned in this report can fall as well as rise. The value of securities and 
financial instruments is subject to exchange rate fluctuation that may have a positive or adverse effect on the price or income of such securities or financial instruments. Investors in securities such as ADR's, the values of 
which are influenced by currency volatility, effectively assume this risk. Structured securities are complex instruments, typically involve a high degree of risk and are intended for sale only to sophisticated investors who are 
capable of understanding and assuming the risks involved. The market value of any structured security may be affected by changes in economic, financial and political factors (including, but not limited to, spot and forward 
interest and exchange rates), time to maturity, market conditions and volatility, and the credit quality of any issuer or reference issuer. Any investor interested in purchasing a structured product should conduct their own 
investigation and analysis of the product and consult with their own professional advisers as to the risks involved in making such a purchase. Some investments discussed in this report may have a high level of volatility. High 
volatility investments may experience sudden and large falls in their value causing losses when that investment is realised. Those losses may equal your original investment. Indeed, in the case of some investments the 
potential losses may exceed the amount of initial investment and, in such circumstances, you may be required to pay more money to support those losses. Income yields from investments may fluctuate and, in 
consequence, initial capital paid to make the investment may be used as part of that income yield. Some investments may not be readily realisable and it may be difficult to sell or realise those investments, similarly it may 
prove difficult for you to obtain reliable information about the value, or risks, to which such an investment is exposed. This report may provide the addresses of, or contain hyperlinks to, websites. Except to the extent to which 
the report refers to website material of CS, CS has not reviewed any such site and takes no responsibility for the content contained therein. Such address or hyperlink (including addresses or hyperlinks to CS's own website 
material) is provided solely for your convenience and information and the content of any such website does not in any way form part of this document. Accessing such website or following such link through this report or CS's 
website shall be at your own risk. This report is issued and distributed in Europe (except Switzerland) by Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, One Cabot Square, London E14 4QJ, England, which is authorised by the 
Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. This report is being distributed in Germany by Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited 
Niederlassung Frankfurt am Main regulated by the Bundesanstalt fuer Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht ("BaFin"). This report is being distributed in the United States and Canada by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC; in 
Switzerland by Credit Suisse AG; in Brazil by Banco de Investimentos Credit Suisse (Brasil) S.A or its affiliates; in Mexico by Banco Credit Suisse (México), S.A. (transactions related to the securities mentioned in this report 
will only be effected in compliance with applicable regulation); in Japan by Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Limited, Financial Instruments Firm, Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Kinsho) No. 66, a member of 
Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Financial Futures Association of Japan, Japan Investment Advisers Association, Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association; elsewhere in Asia/ Pacific by whichever of the 
following is the appropriately authorised entity in the relevant jurisdiction: Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited, Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited, Credit Suisse Securities (Thailand) Limited, regulated by the Office of 
the Securities and Exchange Commission, Thailand, having registered address at 990 Abdulrahim Place, 27th Floor, Unit 2701, Rama IV Road, Silom, Bangrak, Bangkok 10500, Thailand, Tel. +66 2614 6000, Credit 
Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, Credit Suisse AG, Singapore Branch, Credit Suisse Securities (India) Private Limited (CIN no. U67120MH1996PTC104392) regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(registration Nos. INB230970637; INF230970637; INB010970631; INF010970631), having registered address at 9th Floor, Ceejay House, Dr.A.B. Road, Worli, Mumbai - 18, India, T- +91-22 6777 3777, Credit Suisse 
Securities (Europe) Limited, Seoul Branch, Credit Suisse AG, Taipei Securities Branch, PT Credit Suisse Securities Indonesia, Credit Suisse Securities (Philippines ) Inc., and elsewhere in the world by the relevant 
authorised affiliate of the above. Research on Taiwanese securities produced by Credit Suisse AG, Taipei Securities Branch has been prepared by a registered Senior Business Person. Research provided to residents of 
Malaysia is authorised by the Head of Research for Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, to whom they should direct any queries on +603 2723 2020. This report has been prepared and issued for distribution in 
Singapore to institutional investors, accredited investors and expert investors (each as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations) only, and is also distributed by Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch to overseas 
investors (as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations). By virtue of your status as an institutional investor, accredited investor, expert investor or overseas investor, Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch is exempted 
from complying with certain compliance requirements under the Financial Advisers Act, Chapter 110 of Singapore (the "FAA"), the Financial Advisers Regulations and the relevant Notices and Guidelines issued thereunder, 
in respect of any financial advisory service which Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch may provide to you. This information is being distributed by Credit Suisse AG, Dubai Branch, duly licensed and regulated by the Dubai 
Financial Services Authority (DFSA), and is directed at Professional Clients or Market Counterparties only, as defined by the DFSA. The financial products or financial services to which the information relates will only be 
made available to a client who meets the regulatory criteria to be a Professional Client or Market Counterparty only, as defined by the DFSA, and is not intended for any other person. This research may not conform to 
Canadian disclosure requirements. In jurisdictions where CS is not already registered or licensed to trade in securities, transactions will only be effected in accordance with applicable securities legislation, which will vary from 
jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may require that the trade be made in accordance with applicable exemptions from registration or licensing requirements. Non-U.S. customers wishing to effect a transaction should contact a 
CS entity in their local jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise. U.S. customers wishing to effect a transaction should do so only by contacting a representative at Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC in the U.S. 
Please note that this research was originally prepared and issued by CS for distribution to their market professional and institutional investor customers. Recipients who are not market professional or institutional investor 
customers of CS should seek the advice of their independent financial advisor prior to taking any investment decision based on this report or for any necessary explanation of its contents. This research may relate to 
investments or services of a person outside of the UK or to other matters which are not authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation 
Authority or in respect of which the protections of the Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct Authority for private customers and/or the UK compensation scheme may not be available, and further details as 
to where this may be the case are available upon request in respect of this report. CS may provide various services to US municipal entities or obligated persons ("municipalities"), including suggesting individual transactions 
or trades and entering into such transactions. Any services CS provides to municipalities are not viewed as "advice" within the meaning of Section 975 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. 
CS is providing any such services and related information solely on an arm's length basis and not as an advisor or fiduciary to the municipality. In connection with the provision of the any such services, there is no agreement, 
direct or indirect, between any municipality (including the officials, management, employees or agents thereof) and CS for CS to provide advice to the municipality. Municipalities should consult with their financial, accounting 
and legal advisors regarding any such services provided by CS. In addition, CS is not acting for direct or indirect compensation to solicit the municipality on behalf of an unaffiliated broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, 
municipal advisor, or investment adviser for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement by the municipality for or in connection with Municipal Financial Products, the issuance of municipal securities, or of an 
investment adviser to provide investment advisory services to or on behalf of the municipality. If this report is being distributed by a financial institution other than Credit Suisse AG, or its affiliates, that financial institution is 
solely responsible for distribution. Clients of that institution should contact that institution to effect a transaction in the securities mentioned in this report or require further information. This report does not constitute investment 
advice by Credit Suisse to the clients of the distributing financial institution, and neither Credit Suisse AG, its affiliates, and their respective officers, directors and employees accept any liability whatsoever for any direct or 
consequential loss arising from their use of this report or its content. Principal is not guaranteed. Commission is the commission rate or the amount agreed with a customer when setting up an account or at any time after that. 
Copyright © 2015 CREDIT SUISSE AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
Investment principal on bonds can be eroded depending on sale price or market price. In addition, there are bonds on which in vestment principal 
can be eroded due to changes in redemption amounts. Care is required when investing in such instruments.  
When you purchase non-listed Japanese fixed income securities (Japanese government bonds, Japanese municipal bonds, Japanese government guaranteed bonds, Japanese corporate bonds) from CS as a seller, you 
will be requested to pay the purchase price only.  