 
 
 
Credit Suisse Economics  
 
Global Money Notes #29 
U.S. Dollar Libor and War Finance  
 
The Fed’s liquidity injections are working. 
Global dollar funding conditions have eased, and U.S. dollar Libor -OIS spreads 
started to tighten. We don’t think that lower prices on the CPFF or the MMLF 
are necessary for Libor-OIS to tighten more – other factors can tighten it further. 
First, positive Libor-Libor bases are prompting banks to shift their funding from 
the U.S. unsecured funding market to euro and sterling unsecured markets – 
as banks arbitrage positive bases, pressure on U.S. unsecured rates subside. 
Second, the U.S. dolla r swap lines, Section 402 of the Crapo Act and the 
temporary exemption of Treasury securities and potentially repos from the SLR 
will continue to improve the flow of dollars to non -banks through FX swaps – 
this will lower FX swap implied funding costs and compress Libor-OIS further. 
Third, the FIMA repo facility is the only live liquidity facility that’s not being used, 
and one can make the argument that the Fed is currently mispricing the facility: 
a lower price for FIMA repos could free up more balance sheet for FX swaps… 
…with further declines on FX swap implied funding costs and Libor-OIS. 
Fourth, positive Libor -Libor bases are also prompting some central banks to 
deploy their U.S. dollar FX reserves in A1/P1 rated unsecured bank debt, as 
these offer significantly better yields than FX swaps; the case for central banks 
to buy more unsecured bank debt is compelling,  and more central bank buying 
could provide a backstop bid for the U.S. dollar commercial paper/CD markets. 
Based on these developments, our  target for three-month Libor-OIS is 75 bps 
by the end of April, and 25 bps by the end of May. Our target for May is based 
on three assumptions: the temporary exclusion of Treasury repos from the SLR; 
the Fed lowering the price on the FIMA repo facility to  the price of o/n repos; 
and the Fed capping Treasury bill yields at OIS rates through bill yield control. 
The machinery of war finance is in full swing… 
…and liquidity injections over the past month have stabilized funding markets 
and are compressing Libor-OIS spreads from the top down. Messing things up 
from the bottom up – with bill supply – would be a mistake and also confusing. 
The target range and the price of the liquidity facilities are the Fed’s sanctum: 
as a matter of principle, the Fed shouldn’t let bill supply breach the sanctum... 
14 April 2020 
Investment Solutions & Products 
Global 
 
Important Information  
THIS IS NOT RESEARCH. PLEASE REFER TO THE IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES AND CONTACT YOUR CREDIT 
SUISSE REPRESENTATIVE FOR MORE DETAILS. This report represent s the views of the Investment Strategy Department 
of Credit Suisse and has not been prepared in accordance with the legal requirements designed to promote the independence 
of investment research. It is not a product of the Credit Suisse Research Department  and the view of the Investment Strategy 
Department may differ materially from the views of the Credit Suisse Research Department and other divisions at Credit 
Suisse, even if it references published research recommendations. Credit Suisse has a number of policies in place to promote 
the independence of Credit Suisse’s Research Departments from Credit Suisse ’s Investment Strategy-and other departments 
and to manage conflicts of interest, including policies relating to dealing ahead of the dissemination of i nvestment research. 
These policies do not apply to the views of Investment Strategists contained in this report.  
 
 
CONTRIBUTOR 
Zoltan Pozsar 
212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
  
 
 
14 April 2020  
Global Money Notes #29 2 
Part I – Machiavelli, Bagehot and the CPFF 
Had the Fed wanted to lower the prices of the Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF) 
and the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility (MMLF), it would have done so by now. 
The CPFF’s price at OIS+110 bps for A1/P1 issuers and OIS+200 for A2/P2 issuers is 
high relative to other programs, most of which are priced at 25 bps flat or OIS+25 bps. 
The main reason for the pricing gap is that the low-priced facilities – the discount window, 
the PDCF, the U.S. dollar swap lines and the FIMA repo facility – are all secured, but the 
CPFF and the MMLF are unsecured, and  the Fed is using the ir price to mitigate the  
credit risk of buying unsecured bank debt. But there is an easy way to fix this problem: all 
the Fed would have to do is ask for a bigger first loss buffer from the U.S. Treasury, and 
lower the price on the facilities in exchange – to say OIS+25 bps for A1/P1 issuers. 
The fact that the Fed has not done this in recent weeks is telling… 
…given all the other things the Fed has done, which include launching three new facilities 
to backstop the credit market, and temporarily exempting reserves and Treasuries from the 
leverage ratio (SLR). Why does the price of the CPFF remain far above other facilities’? 
There are at least two possible answers. 
First, maybe the Fed is sending us a Machiavellian message on benchmark rate reform : 
Libor is going away and SOFR is the future, and if one-sided borrowers like the Treasury 
or corporate treasurers were reluctant to issue SOFR -linked debt as they were put off by 
periodic spikes in repo rates in the past, they should reconsider . The Fed has shown a  
strong willingness and ability to police the SOFR rate through a low -priced repo facility, 
but it backstopped unsecured markets – which drive Libor – at much wider  spreads. 
Borrowers now have a choice: in times of stress borrow at a low SOFR rate plus a s pread 
or at a high Libor rate plus a spread. SOFR may come out of this crisis with stronger legs. 
Second, the answer may have less to do with Machiavelli and more to do with Bagehot: 
“central banks should lend freely to solvent firms against good collateral at a penalty rate”.  
Central banks do their core activities  – open market operations and emergency lending  – 
on a collateralized basis: the discount window lends to banks at 25 bps against collateral; 
the PDCF – the discount window for primary dealers – also lends at 25 bps collateralized; 
the repo facility lends to primary dealers at the IOR rate against U.S. Treasury collateral; 
the FIMA repo facility lends to central banks at IOR +25 bps also versus Treasuries; and  
the dollar swap lines lend to central banks at OIS+25 bps versus local currency collateral.1 
No one can say that the Fed has not done enough to backstop the core of the system: 
core assets like Treasuries are backstopped;  core institutions li ke banks and dealers     
are backstopped; and core funding markets like repos and FX swaps are backstopped too.2 
Money is hierarchical… 
…and during crises, rules are flexible at the core and rigid at the periphery. In this crisis, 
the penalty rate part of Bagehot’s rule was replaced with “friendly” rates for the core –          
with Covid-19 there is no moral hazard in lending to the core of the system at low rates.  
                                                  
1 Liquidity absorbing facilities like the o/n reverse repo (RRP) facility or the foreign RRP facility are also collateralized, but 
in the case of these facilities it is the Fed that provides collateral. Central bank operations are always collateralized. 
2 Implicit in this web of backstops is that the dollar needs of emerging market (EM) economies are backstopped too, to 
the extent that EM central banks have a sufficient amount of U.S. Treasuries to repo privately or through FIMA repo. 
 
 
14 April 2020  
Global Money Notes #29 3 
But ignoring the need for collateral when lending to the periphery is anathema for the Fed, 
and given the unsecured nature of the CP market, it’s understandable why the price of the 
CPFF and MMLF facilities are 100 bps higher than the price of collateralized facilities.3 
Once again, there is a way to get around the Fed’s discomfort around lending unsecured, 
which is the U.S. Treasury increasing the first loss buffer backing the CPFF and MMLF. 
We doubt that U.S. Treasury would say no to such a request and if the Fed hasn’t asked 
the Treasury for a bigger first loss buffer, that may suggest that the Fed is intent on either 
delivering the Machiavellian message above or drawing a stark contrast between the 
terms of lending secured versus unsecured, and lending to the core versus the periphery. 
It appears that according to the Fed’s mental map, prime funds are peripheral institutions, 
commercial paper is a peripheral funding market and Libo r is a vestige of the pas t, and 
government funds are core institutions, repos and FX swaps are core funding markets 
and SOFR is the future. Instead of arguing for lower rates on the CPFF and the MMLF, 
maybe the market should reflect and listen to what the Fed is trying to say with its pricing. 
Let’s assume that the pricing of the CPFF and MMLF will not change from current levels: 
could U.S. dollar Libor-OIS spreads still tighten materially from their peak and if yes, how? 
The answer is yes: Libor-OIS started to tighten already without a lower price on the CPFF 
(see Figure 1), and further significant tightening is likely by the end of April. How? 
In previous issues of Global Money Notes we compared money markets to a cake… 
…sponge, cream, sponge, cream. 
Cakes have a bottom layer and a top layer and stuff in-between. In dollar funding markets 
the bottom layers are the fed funds/OIS curve and the general collateral (GC) repo curve 
and the top layer is made up of FX swap implied curves from the main funding currencies. 
Unsecured rates – and hence U.S. dollar Libor – typically trade in-between (see Figure 2): 
it is unusual for Libor to go through the top layer and to stay there for a sustained period, 
which is to say that if the Fed can lower the top layer  with the U.S. dollar swap  lines, 
Libor will fall back into range irrespective of whether the price of the CPFF is lower or not. 
That’s because c ommercial paper and Libor trading above FX swap implied yields mean 
that Libor-Libor cross-currency bases are trading positive.  In turn that means that it’s 
cheaper for Libor panel banks to raise funding in yen, euros, sterling, and Swiss francs 
and swap it to U.S. dollars, than to issue U.S. dollar commercial paper onshore in the U.S. 
Banks headquartered in these currency zones c an bid up local currency funding and bid 
for dollars in the FX swap market until Libor-Libor bases go into negative territory again.  
In fact, we started to see these funding arbitrage trades gather momentum last week as 
Libor-OIS spreads traded considerably wider for the euro and sterling, and corresponding 
OIS-OIS cross-currency bases started to go more negative once again (see Figures 3-6). 
Banks headquartered in these currency zones have around 40 bps more to squeeze   
from their local funding markets and corresponding OIS -OIS bases, respectively, before 
the arbitrage disappears. This is how U.S. dollar Libor-OIS spreads can fall to 75 bps by 
the end of April, which would put U.S. dollar Libor 40 bps below the price of the CPFF –        
so healing in the commercial paper market is possible without a lower price on the CPFF. 
                                                  
3 The MMLF is the secondary market cousin of the CPFF. The MMLF provides prime money funds with a liquidity put to 
the Fed at a price of the discount window rate plus 100 bps, or 125 bps. This discount rate is a floor under CP rates. 
Prime funds would not buy CP at lower yields. If they did, they couldn’t cover the cost of raising liquidity from the Fed. 
 
 
14 April 2020  
Global Money Notes #29 4 
Part II – Balance Sheet Relief and OIS-OIS Bases 
Further tightening in U.S. dollar Libor -OIS spreads is possible during the course of May,    
if FX swap implied yields fall and OIS-OIS cross-currency bases go less negative from here. 
This is where t he interaction between some of the Fed’s new liquidity facilities and        
recent regulatory changes becomes important: the U.S. dollar swap lines , Section 402     
of the Crapo Act, the temporary exclusion of Treasuries and repos from the leverage ratio, 
and changes to the pricing of the FIMA repo facility can all increase the flow of dollars 
through FX swaps to non-banks and drive OIS-OIS cross-currency bases less negative. 
The U.S. dollar swap lines are currently lending close to $400 billion (see Figure 7) –   
this means that foreign banks consume that much less dealer balance sheet and 
corresponding risk capital to get the dollars they need. They now get those dollars fr om 
central banks, and dealers have more balance sheet to lend to non-banks via FX swaps. 
Section 402  of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act 
(otherwise known as the Crapo Act) of 2018 went into effect last week, on April 1, 2020, 
and like the swap lines, it also increases the flow of dollars to non-banks via FX swaps. 
Section 402 exempts central bank deposits from the calculation of the SLR for custodians, 
namely for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, Northern Trust Corporation, and 
State Street Corporation. Importantly, under the exemptions granted by Section 402, 
central bank deposits refer not only to deposits at the Fed, but also to de posits at any 
central bank of a member country of the OECD. This means that Section 402 increases 
custodian banks’ ability to swap the U.S. dollar liquidity injected by the Fed through QE 
for deposits at the BoJ, the ECB, the SNB, the BoE and the BoC and other central banks. 
Section 402 thus boosts the flow of U.S. dollars in the FX swap market :                         
as QE stuffs the custodians with reserves, they will lend more to non-banks via FX swaps; 
the limit to these flows will be custodian s banks’ Tier 1 leverage ratios , but the banks’ 
voluntary suspension of stock buybacks for the duration of the crisis will delay that limit, so 
“limitless FX swap books” at custodian banks is a game changer we should be aware of. 
Next, the temporary exclusion of reserves and U.S. Treasury securities from the SLR is a 
highly “unusual” rule change. First, it’s been issued by the Board  of Governors of the Fed, 
not including the Fed’s supervisory peers from the FDIC and the OCC as it’s customary.  
Second, given that the Board has sole jurisdiction over bank holding companies only                 
– it shares jurisdiction over banks with the FDIC and the OCC – the exemption applies     
to U.S bank holding companies and U.S. intermediate holding companies of foreign banks 
and the key operating subsidiaries of such holding companies, which are primary dealers.  
Third, given that the operating entities the exemption applie s to are primary dealers, 
exempting reserves from the SLR is meaningless since primary dealers don’t have any – 
only banks have reserve accounts at the Fed. So where do these contradictions leave us? 
In our reading, the net impact of this rule will be that primary dealers will be able to run 
“limitless Treasury inventories ”, which, if need be, will be financed via repos by the Fed.    
In that sense, the Board of Governors of the Fed is “drafting” the de aler community         
to take part in the war effort – by financing the war on Covid-19. Paraphrasing Churchill: 
“we give you the balance sheet, and you’ll finish the job”. 
One detail of the exemption that’s still not clear is whether repos backed by Trea suries 
will also be exempt from the SLR. Given that the exemption applies to primary dealers, 
and that repo is the bread -and-butter activity of dealers, our working assumption is that 
repos will be exempt too by mid-May, by the time rule change’s comment period is over. 
 
 
14 April 2020  
Global Money Notes #29 5 
If our assumption is right and repos are exempt from the SLR, primary dealers can run         
“limitless repo books ”, similar to how they can now run limitless Treasury inventories ,     
with one caveat: repos have risk weights and Treasurie s do not, so Tier 1 leverage ratios 
can limit the size of repo books. But here too, buyback suspensions will delay that limit. 
Limitless repos in turn mean even more lending of dollars to non -banks via FX swaps :        
if balance sheet for repos is freely available, any hedge fund or asset manager                      
can repo more Treasuries for dollars to lend more to non-banks in the FX swap market. 
To pull three balance sheet relief themes together: as central banks lend more to banks  
through the swap lines, custodian banks lend more in the  FX swap  market thanks to 
Section 402, and dealers finance more Treasuries for hedge funds and asset managers 
thanks to the relaxation of the SLR, the flow of dollars in the FX swap market improves – 
FX swap implied yields can fall further and OIS-OIS bases can go less negative from here. 
The FIMA repo facility has the potential to provide further balance sheet relief.  
The facility allows central banks to repo Treasu ries with the Fed, and if central banks   
shift their repo needs from the dealers to the Fed, dealers will have more balance sheet to 
offer to hedge funds and asset managers to lend even more to non-banks via FX swaps. 
The Fed seems to think of the facility as a swap line for central banks without a swap line: 
whereas some central banks can use their own currency to borrow U.S. dollars through 
the swap lines, some central banks cannot – the FIMA facility is for these central banks. 
Because the Fed sees the facility is a quasi-swap line, it is pricing it at IOR+25 bps, in line 
with the price of the swap lines.4 But at IOR+25 bps, or 35 bps, it is priced relatively high 
compared to private repo rates, which explains why foreign central banks are not using it. 
The FIMA repo facility is the only live facility of the Fed that’s not being used. 
That could suggest that the Fed should not think of the FIMA facility as a quasi-swap line, 
because there is a big difference  between one pledging foreign currency for U.S. dollars 
and one pledging Treasuries for U.S. dollars: one is called an FX swap; the other a repo.  
Were the Fed to lower the price on the FIMA repo facility from IOR+25 bps, or 35 bps,    
to the price of the repo facility for primary dealers, which offers liquidity at IOR, or 10 bps, 
the usage of the facility would increase as foreign central banks shift their repo needs 
from private dealers to the Fed. That would free up more balance sheet for FX swaps,    
and lead to further declines in FX swap implied yields and less negative OIS-OIS bases. 
In our view, the liquidity facility that’s overdue for a price change is the FIMA repo facility, 
and not the CPFF: a lower rate on FIMA repos can push U.S. dollar Libor lower indirectly. 
The liquidity the Fed is pumpin g into the system, combined with balance sheet relief 
coming from both regulatory changes and the liquidity facilities means that the drivers of 
dollar funding stresses under Basel III – liquidity shortages and balance sheet constrains – 
are about to disappear from our radars for the foreseeable future. In turn, i f these drivers 
were what kept FX swap implied yields high and OIS -OIS cross currency bases negative, 
their absence can push FX swap implied yields lower and OIS-OIS bases less negative. 
OIS-OIS bases can go as high as -25 bps, in line with the price of the Fed’s swap lines, 
and that can tighten U.S. dollar Libor-OIS further to around 25 bps by the end of May. 
                                                  
4 The Fed’s U.S. dollar swap lines are priced at OIS+25 bps. Because the dollar swap lines offer term U.S. dollars, 
they are priced off of OIS. But the FIMA repo facility offers only overnight U.S. dollars and so it is priced off of IOR. 
 
 
14 April 2020  
Global Money Notes #29 6 
Part III – FX Reserve Managers and U.S. Dollar Libor-OIS 
Clearly, there is a lot of moving parts in funding markets and as everything falls into place, 
FX swap implied yields will grind lower and OIS -OIS cross-currency bases less negative,  
and these dynamics will bring down commercial paper yields and tighten Li bor-OIS,       
so the Fed is right not to lower the price on the CPFF  yet. We’ll see how things play out 
given the existing lending and regulatory responses. The signs so far are encouraging… 
Other than less negative OIS-OIS bases, FX reserve managers could also help Libor -OIS 
by providing a much needed backstop bid for the commercial paper and deposit markets. 
The problem with the U.S. commercial paper market currently is that the usual buyers                     
– corporate treasurers, prime money funds, offshore money funds and securities lenders – 
are not buying. Corporate treasurers usually have excess cash but now they do not;  
prime and offshore money market funds had big outflows and are unwilling to term out; 
and securities lenders won’t have cash inflows and won’t term out until risk is definitely on. 
U.S. dollar Libor-OIS spreads reflect problems with buyers, not problems with banks. 
During past episodes of money market dislocations, medium-term bond funds stepped in 
with a backstop bid for commercial paper and that backstop bid was what started to drive  
Libor-OIS spreads in. But this time around, medium term bo nd funds are absent as they 
chase better yields in the IG market, where paper trades 200 bps over three-month Libor.  
With the usual backstop bid f or commercial paper absent, and the CPFF priced too wide, 
foreign central banks  have a potential role to play  as buyers of U.S. commercial paper :  
foreign central banks with access to the dollar swap lines are not in a  position where they 
have to liquidate their U.S. dollar reserves, and if they don’t, they leave money on the table. 
First, if they lend their dollars in the FX swap market, they are leaving money on the table 
because commercial paper  – as implied by U.S. dollar Libor – offers better yields than 
lending dollars versus euros, sterling and yen for example (see Figures 4,  6,  and 8). 
Second, if they lend dollars in the Treasury market, they are leaving money on the table too 
because commercial paper offers yields that are at least 100 bps better than Treasuries. 
Switching from FX swaps and Treasuries to commercial paper should not be a big deal : 
while FX swaps are secured and commercial paper is unsecured, the global banks (GSIBs) 
that are the biggest issuers of commercial paper do not pose a credit risk given that they 
are on liquidity support in every jurisdiction they operate in. Furthermore, most the 
commercial paper issued by banks funds portfolios of high -quality liquid a ssets (HQLA) 
like reserves and Treasuries, so really, commercial paper is basically HQLA in a “gift-wrap”. 
The relative value case for commercial paper and certificates of deposit are compelling , 
and if central banks backstop the commercial paper market below the price of the CPFF, 
then U.S. dollar Libor -OIS spreads could drop to as low as 50 bps by the end of April , 
independent of the FX swap market dynamics that we have discussed on the prior pages. 
And then there is the obvious… 
…general risk on, the e quity market rally, inflows into prime funds and securities lenders 
which will all help the bid for commercial paper and certificates of deposit, and of course  
the Fed may listen to the consensus and lower the price on the CPFF and the MMLF. 
These things can all improve Libor-OIS spreads, but their timing is uncertain. 
Our aim with this analysis was to show how absent any improvement in the obvious drivers 
of front -end dynamics, there is a lot of war finance  in motion already that will ease 
unsecured funding pressures from the top down: by compressing FX swap implied yields 
and potentially by bringing central banks in as marginal buyers of unsecured bank debt. 
 
 
14 April 2020  
Global Money Notes #29 7 
Conclusion 
Our analysis showed how the machinery of war finance can ease unsecured funding 
pressures from the top down: by compressing FX swap implied yields and OIS-OIS bases. 
But bill supply can complicate this picture from the bottom up. 
Bill supply last week pushed Treasury bill yields from below OIS to 20 bps above OIS, and 
further supply without yield curve control could push bill yields higher, which would risk 
undoing the improvement that the Fed’s liquidity and regulatory measures helped engineer:  
higher bill yields could pull funds away f rom the FX swap market as foreign central banks 
put the ir dollars into bills , not FX swaps , and as bill -OIS spreads grind more positive,           
they will push FX swap implied yields higher, OIS-OIS cross-currency bases more negative 
and that will limit how much more U.S. dollar Libor-OIS spreads can tighten from here. 
For all the talk about the war on an invisible enemy and war finance, we haven’t heard 
from the Debt Management Office of the Treasury and the Fed about the need for  the 
monetary financing of the CARES Act  and further stimulus measures. The exemption of 
Treasuries from the leverage ratio frees up demand for supply  (“limitless inventories”) ,    
but the near-term supply of bills is too much and can push bills yields higher from here, 
risking a reversal to the improved funding conditions the Fed worked so hard to achieve. 
The Fed has done a lot… 
…and yield curve control  where they peg three month Treasury bill yields at OIS rates  
and is the only thing the Fed has not done yet, but soon will have to . The target  range            
for overnight rates and the OIS curve – the bottom layer of the money market cake –      
are the Fed’s monetary sanctum . Everything the Fed does is priced based on variables 
within that sanctum: the top of the band, IOR, IOR plus a spread and OIS plus a spread. 
The fiscal authority should not breach the Fed’s sanctum in money markets and                  
the monetary authority shouldn’t tolerate a breach – especially in the current environment. 
The monetary authority should cap the bill cu rve at OIS rates so that money market rates 
do not get pushed around by bill supply and do not offset the impact of liquidity injections. 
  
 
 
14 April 2020  
Global Money Notes #29 8 
Figure 1: U.S. Dollar Libor-OIS 
percent 
 
Source: Credit Suisse, the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service 
 
Figure 2: U.S. Dollar Libor Usually Doesn’t Trade above FX Swap Implied Rates 
percent 
 
Source: Credit Suisse, the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service 

 
 
14 April 2020  
Global Money Notes #29 9 
Figure 3: EURIBOR-OIS 
percent 
 
Source: Credit Suisse, the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service 
 
Figure 4: FX Swap Implied Cost of Dollar Funding from € 
percent 
 
Source: Credit Suisse, the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service 

 
 
14 April 2020  
Global Money Notes #29 10 
Figure 5: Sterling Libor-OIS 
percent 
 
Source: Credit Suisse, the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service 
 
Figure 6: FX Swap Implied Cost of Dollar Funding from £ 
percent 
 
Source: Credit Suisse, the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service 

 
 
14 April 2020  
Global Money Notes #29 11 
 
Figure 7: Swap Lines for Banks means more FX Swaps for Non-Banks 
$ billions 
 
Source: Federal Reserve 
 
Figure 8: FX Swap Implied Cost of Dollar Funding from ¥ 
percent 
 
Source: Credit Suisse, the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL™ service 
 
 
-9
-7
-5
-3
-1
1
3
5
7
9
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
200
225
250
275
300
325
350
375
400
425
15 16 17 18 19 20
$ swap lines with maturities of 15 days or less $ swap lines with maturities of 16-90 days
$ swap lines with central banks, $ bn (weekly average) $ swap lines with central banks, $ bn (Wednesday snapshots)

 
 
14 April 2020  
Global Money Notes #29 12 
  
Additional Important Information  
This material has been prepared by the Investment Strategy Department personnel of Credit Suisse identified in this material as "Contributors" 
and not by Credit Suisse's Research Department. The information contained in this document has been provided as g eneral market 
commentary only and does not constitute any form of personal advice, legal, tax or other regulated financial advice or servic e. It is intended 
only to provide observations and views of the Investment Strategy Department, which may be differen t from, or inconsistent with, the 
observations and views of Credit Suisse Research Department analysts, other Credit Suisse departments, or the proprietary pos itions of Credit 
Suisse. Observations and views expressed herein may be changed by the Investment  Strategy Department at any time without notice. Credit 
Suisse accepts no liability for losses arising from the use or reliance on of this material.  
This material does not purport to contain all of the information that an interested party may desire and, in fact, provides only a limited view of a 
particular market. It is not investment research, or a research recommendation for regulatory purposes, as it does not consti tute substantive 
research or analysis. The information provided is not intended to provi de a sufficient basis on which to make an investment decision and is not 
a personal recommendation or investment advice. While it has been obtained from or based upon sources believed by the trader or sales 
personnel to be reliable, each of the trader or s ales personnel and Credit Suisse does not represent or warrant its accuracy or completeness 
and is not responsible for losses or damages arising from the use or reliance on of this material.  
This communication is marketing material and/or trader commentar y. It is not a product of the research department. Where distribution of this 
material is subject to the rules of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), [generally] it is a “solicitation ” of derivatives 
business only as that term is used w ithin CFTC Rule 1.71 and 23.605 promulgated under the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (the “CFTC 
Rules”) where applicable, but is not a binding offer to buy/sell any financial instrument. The views of the author may differ  from others at 
Credit Suisse Group (including Credit Suisse Research).  
Credit Suisse is acting solely as an arm’s length contractual counterparty and not as a financial adviser (or in any other ad visory capacity 
including tax, legal, accounting or otherwise) or in a fiduciary capacity. Any i nformation provided does not constitute advice or a 
recommendation to enter into or conclude any transaction. Before entering into any transaction, you should ensure that you fu lly understand 
the potential risks and rewards and independently determine that  it is appropriate for you given your objectives, experience, financial and 
operational resources, and other relevant circumstances. You should consult with such advisers (including, without limitation, tax advisers, legal 
advisers and accountants) as you deem necessary.  
No part of this material may be reproduced, retransmitted disclosed or distributed in any manner without the prior written pe rmission of Credit 
Suisse.  
This material is issued and distributed in the U.S. by CSSU, a member of NYSE, FINRA, SIPC and the NFA, and CSSU accepts responsibility 
for its contents. Clients should contact analysts and execute transactions through a Credit Suisse subsidiary or affiliate in  their home 
jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise.  
This material i s provided for informational purposes and does not constitute an invitation or offer to subscribe for or purchase any of the 
products or services mentioned.  
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("CSSEL") and Credit Suisse International ("CSI") are au thorised by the Prudential Regulation 
Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") and the Prudential Regulation Authority under UK laws, whi ch differ from 
Australian Laws. CSSEL and CSI do not hold an Australian Financial Services Li cence ("AFSL") and are exempt from the requirement to hold 
an AFSL under the Corporations Act (Cth) 2001 ("Corporations Act") in respect of the financial services provided to Australia n wholesale 
clients (within the meaning of section 761G of the Corporati ons Act) (hereinafter referred to as “Financial Services”). This material is not for 
distribution to retail clients and is directed exclusively at Credit Suisse's professional clients and eligible counterpartie s as defined by the FCA, 
and wholesale clients as defined under section 761G of the Corporations Act. Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited ("CSHK") is licensed and 
regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong under the laws of Hong Kong, which differ from Australian law s. CSHKL 
does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing Financia l 
Services. Investment banking services in the United States are provided by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, an affiliate o f Credit Suisse 
Group. CSSU is regulated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under United States laws, which differ from Australian 
laws. CSSU does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations A ct in respect of providing 
Financial Services. Credit Suisse Asset Management LLC (CSAM) is authorised by the Securities and Exchange Commission under U S laws, 
which differ from Australian laws. CSAM does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement  to hold an AFSL under the Corporations 
Act in respect of providing Financial Services. Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited (ABN 35 068 232 708) ("CSEAL") is an AFSL holder 
in Australia (AFSL 237237). In Australia, this material may only be distribu ted to Wholesale investors as defined in the Corporations Act. 
CSEAL is not an authorised deposit taking institution and products described herein do not represent deposits or other liabil ities of Credit 
Suisse AG, Sydney Branch. Credit Suisse AG, Sydney B ranch does not guarantee any particular rate of return on, or the performance of any 
products described.  
This report may not be reproduced either in whole or in part, without the written permission of Credit Suisse. Copyright © 20 20 Credit Suisse 
Group AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
  
 