 
 
 
Credit Suisse Economics  
 
War and Currency Statecraft 
 
 
 
War cuts new financial channels. 
What are G7 policymakers, rates traders, and strategists to do when threats to the 
unipolar world order are coming from every angle . They should definitely not 
ignore the threats, but they still do. How could they not? For two generations,  
we did not have to discount geopolitical risk s. Since the end of WWII, the only 
Great Power co nflict investors really had to deal with was the Cold War, and 
since the conclusion of the Cold War , the world enjoyed a unipolar “moment” – 
the U.S. was the undisputed hegemon, globalization was the economic order, 
and the U.S. dollar was the currency of choice. But today, geopolitics has reared its  
ugly head again: for the first time since WWII, there is a formidable challenger 
to the existing world order, and for the first time in its young history, the U.S. is 
facing off against an economically equal or, by some measures, superior adversary.  
China is pro actively writing a new set of rules as it replays the “Great Game”  
(see here), creating a new type of globalization with new institutions like the  
Belt and Road Initiative, BRICS+, and the SCO. Global warming is helping Russia 
add an “artic suspender” (see here) to China’s Belt and Road vision, and China, 
while under lockdown, forged a special relationship not just with Russia but all of 
OPEC+ (see here). And as Pippa Malmgren recently noted, commodity -rich 
Africa is now also a frontier in what I called the quest for “commodity encumbrance”. 
One Belt, One Road (and an Artic Suspender) means… 
…One World, Two Systems. Maybe not in these words, but I am sure you have 
heard these themes before and that you are aware of them. And if you are… 
…you should stop pretending that this means nothing for the U.S. dollar or 
demand for Treasury securities. If the world is going from unipolar to multipolar; 
if the world is gradually drifting from “one world, one system ” (globalization) to 
“one world, two systems” (friendshoring and Belt and Road) ; and if the G20  
is seemingly splitting into the “G7 + Australia”, “BRICS+”, and “the non-aligned”,  
it’s impossible that this split won’t affect the international monetary system… 
Indeed, “G7 + Australia” is being challenged by the “original” BRICS plus the “+”  
– Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and Argentina. Recently, the first two of these countries 
started to apply to become  members of BRICS, and the “non-aligned countries” 
of Indonesia, Mexico , and South Korea matter for different reasons:  
first, Indonesia wants a “lithium OPEC”, Mexico nationalized lithium mining, and 
South Korea – snubbed by AUKUS – was “told” to uphold the “Three Nos” policy. 
  
29 December 2022 
Investment Solutions & Sustainability 
Global 
 
Important Information  
THIS IS NOT RESEARCH. PLEASE REFER TO THE IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES AND CONTACT YOUR CREDIT 
SUISSE REPRESENTATIVE FOR MORE DETAILS. This report represents the views of the Investment Strategy Department 
of Credit Suisse and has not been prepared in accordance with the legal requirements designed to promote the independence 
of investment research. It is not a product of the Credit Suisse Research Department and the view of the Investment Strategy 
Department may differ materially from the views of the Credit Suis se Research Department and other divisions at Credit 
Suisse, even if it references published research recommendations. Credit Suisse has a number of policies in place to promote 
the independence of Credit Suisse’s Research Departments from Credit Suisse ’s Investment Strategy-and other departments 
and to manage conflicts of interest, including policies relating to dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research . 
These policies do not apply to the views of Investment Strategists contained in this report.  
 
 
CONTRIBUTORS 
Zoltan Pozsar 
212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
  
 
 
29 December 2022  
War and Currency Statecraft 2 
The G20 is becoming the “G7 + Australia” = 8 countries on one side, and 
“BRICS + new applicants + the thematically aligned” = 11 countries on the other. 
8 + 11 = 19. The remaining member, the European Union (EU), is perhaps the 
most directly affected by this global “split”. Indeed, we’ve come quite a long way 
from the family photo of the 2017 G20 Summit (see here): Chancellor Merkel, 
dressed in red and grey, is flanked by BRICS heads of state on both sides  
– President Jacob Zuma and President Jair Bolsonaro on her right and 
President Xi Jinping and President Vladimir Putin on her left – strikingly, 
President Trump and President Macron on the outer edge of the family picture. 
Back then, the big deal about the G20 Summit was President Trump’s one hour, 
off-the-record conversation with President Putin and the seating arrangement 
at the dinner table (see here), but in retrospect, and in light of this year’s events, 
the significance of that G20 family photo was those surrounding the chancellor.  
Since then, the EU crashed out of Russia’s “gas orbit” but remains in China’s 
economic orbit, and the BRICS embarked on “BRICSpansion” in other directions:  
Argentina and Iran applied already, as did Algeria (see here, here, and here), and 
as noted above, Saudi Arabia and Turkey are planning to apply , while Egypt  
– a neighbor of Saudi Arabia across the Gulf of Aqaba and neighbor of  MBS’s 
signature city of NEOM project – is also planning to apply next year (see here).  
Based on this list of attendees from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PRC, 
many attendees of this year’s dialogue of foreign ministers between BRICS 
and emerging markets and developing countries have either formally applied or 
are in the process of applying to BRICS+. We have yet to hear from Indonesia, 
Thailand, Kazakhstan, the UAE, Nigeria , or Senegal (all attendees), but  
as I noted here, 2023 will be pivotal for  BRICS: after a Covid-induced hiatus, China 
plans to host the third Belt and Road Forum (the “WEF” of the East)  
in March or April 2023 (see here). I expect formal applications to come in by then. 
The map in this article is quite important to “internalize” because it is a map that 
Zbigniew Brzezinski specifically warned against in his classic foreign policy booklet, 
The Grand Chessboard . Therein, on page 32 of the first edition, Brzezinski 
shows a map that shows the world upside down (the Southern Hemisphere atop  
and the Northern Hemisphere at the bottom), and Brzezinski notes the following: 
“how the U.S. manages Eurasia is critical. Eurasia is the globe’s largest continent 
and is geopolitically axial. A power that dominates Eurasia would control  
two of the world ’s three most advanced and economically productive regions.  
A mere glance at the map also suggests that control over Eurasia would almost 
automatically entail Africa’s subordination, rendering the Western Hemisphere 
and Oceania ge opolitically periphera l [to Eurasia] . […] Eurasia is thus the 
chessboard on which the struggle for global primacy continues to be played…”  
So that’s that: when “BRICSpansion” is understood from the perspective of 
Brzezinski’s framework, you’ll then have a good idea as to why Great Power 
conflict matters for your portfolio. Because paraphrasing Sir Halford Mackinder: 
“whoever encumbers commodities and controls the factories rules inflation, 
whoever rules inflation controls interest rates, and whoever controls interest rates 
controls the level of the stock market and financial wealth more generally”… 
…which clarifies that Great Power conflict, BRICSpansion, “BRICS coin”, and 
commodity encumbrance portend nothing good for your 60/40 portfolio. Adapt! 
 
 
29 December 2022  
War and Currency Statecraft 3 
Why am I going Ian Bremmer on you? After all, I am just a “plumber”, not a 
geostrategic expert. I agree. But with geopolitics, I’ll take you to places that a 
geostrategic expert won’t: to the deepest depths of the global financial system…  
…where I see nothing good brewing. 
The ugly part of BRICSpansion is that the one thing that the BRICS are most 
aligned on is the de-dollarization of their fast-growing, bilateral trade flows, and 
so “BRICSpansion = more de-dollarization”. The map of BRICSpansion here, 
together with the map of Brzezinski’s “nightmare” above (do  read the book), 
suggests that the drive to de-dollarize intra-BRICS trade and soon intra-BRICS+ 
trade will speed up. Don’t tell me that doesn’t threaten the dollar’s supremacy, 
or that it won’t hurt the “exorbitant privilege”. “Our currency, your problem”  
– pushed too far with sanctions – boomeranged. Secretary Jack Lew was right  
when in 2016 he said that “the more we condition the use of the dollar and  
our financial system on adherence to U.S. foreign policy, the more the risk of  
migration to other currencies and other financial systems in the grows”. Indeed. 
Today, the migration Secretary Lew warned about is on with full force, and 
Brad Setser’s recent blog, “The New Geopolitics of Global Finance ”, describes 
how the flows have changed. Amo ng current and aspiring BRICS members, 
current account surpluses are at a record, but dollars aren’t being put into 
Treasuries but are used for geopolitical ends – China, Russia, and Saudi Arabia 
are becoming bankers to EM countries dealing with crushing d ollar debts: 
Russia is funding Turkey, Chin a is funding Russia (see graph 5.4 here),  
the Saudis and the GCC are providing more financing to Egypt than the IMF , 
and China and Saudi Arabia are providing funds to Pakistan as per Brad’s blog. 
These are all new dynamics for the U.S. dollar system , so let’s pay attention : 
the flows that Brad highlights means that current account surplus countries are 
putting a greater distance between themselves and the U.S. Treasury and the  
western financial system. By “deflecting” dollar inflows, they are weaponizing the 
U.S. dollar as well to secure foreign policy wins in the new “Great Game” at the 
expense of the G7 . And “deflection” is the anteroom of de -dollarization:  
our starting point to understand de -dollarization should be a b ook by Zoe Liu 
and Mihaela Papa, Can the BRICS De -Dollarize the Global Financial System , 
which we discussed in our previous dispatch. The book was published just before 
the outbreak of the war in Ukraine and highlights the “plumbing” that’s been 
put in place by the  BRICS countries to de -dollarize their trade relationships. 
Since the outbreak of the war and the freezing of Russia’s FX reserves,  
both current and aspiring BRICS members sped up their de-dollarization efforts: 
India rupee settlement mechanism draws interest from more nations 
India, UAE in talks for rupee-dirham denominated bilateral trade 
Russia is seeking oil payments from India in UAE dirhams 
These are all headlines from this year (2022) involving a BRICS member (India) 
that arguably has the best relations with the G7. Regarding the renminbi settlement  
of oil and gas, we know that Russia and Iran ha ve been accepting renminbi 
since 2021 and 2022, respectively , and in light of the China -GCC Summit,  
we discussed the birth of the petroyuan at length in our prior dispatch (see here). 
Meanwhile, President Lula is back in Brazil, which will give de -dollarization  
further momentum: according to the book by Liu and Papa, for President Lula, 
“BRICS was not created to be an instrument of defense, but to be an 
instrument of attack. So we [have] our own currency to become independent 
from the U.S. dollar in our trade relations ”. And President Lula  went on: 
 
 
29 December 2022  
War and Currency Statecraft 4 
“[President] Obama called me,  telling me, ‘Are you creat ing a new currency,  
a new euro?’ I said, ‘No,  I’m just trying to get rid of the U .S. dollar… 
I’m just trying not to be dependent’”. My point is that next year and beyond…  
…the U.S. dollar and Treasury securities will likely be dealing with issues they 
never had to deal with before: less demand, not more; more competition, not less. 
De-dollarization is about to accelerate from here… 
I am currently reading Chapter 9  of Perry Mehrling’s “Money and Empire”, and 
as Perry notes, Kindleberger understood war to be a “doula” to financial innovation 
(doula is my word, not Perry’s or Charlie’s): “ war is a hothouse and places 
enormous strain on resources, which finance is used to mobilize. […]  
Financial innovation occurs in wartime. […] War both cuts off old connections 
in trade and finance and [drives] the fashioning of new. War cuts new channels”. 
For the record, Perry and I totally disagree about the future of the U.S. dollar 
(listen to our debate on Bloomberg’s Odd Lots here), but in light of Perry’s 
quote of Kindleberger above, BRICSpansion , and all that I wrote about above,  
I can’t help but disagree even more strongly with Perry on the future of the dollar. 
I wonder what Kindleberger’s take would be... 
Let’s add CBDCs to our discussion, which are growing like kudzu… 
The Nature Conservanc y warns that “kudzu looks innocent, but the invasive , 
“mile-a-minute” plant easily overtakes abandoned homes and telephone poles”.  
Replace “abandoned homes” with sanctioned countries  and all of OPEC+  
(see here), and “telephone poles” with the PBoC’s swap line network and notice: 
according to an interactive map published by the Council of Foreign Relations  
(see the map at the bottom of the page here), developed economy swap lines are 
basically there  to provide unlimited backstop cross-border portfolio hedges, and 
developed economy to emerging market swap lines are limited and temporary 
and serve to backstop neighbors (Mexico), financial centers (Singapore) , and 
countries with U.S.  troops (South Korea). China’s swap lines on the other hand 
span what Halford Mackinder called the “World -Island”, that is all of Europe,  
all of Eurasia , big chunks of Africa, and , as per the China -GCC Summit, the 
Middle East is next (see here). Brzezinski and Kindleberger would be very upset. 
Kindleberger especially, since the PBoC seems to be working hard on becoming 
an international lender of last resort that is geographically far more diverse than 
the Federal Reserve, and not only that, but an international lender of last resort 
that, through renminbi swap lines, aims to foster trade and real economic activity, 
not “merely” portfolio hedges to “nurse” decades of accumulated trade surpluses. 
For the Fed, the swap lines are about backstopping the past (past surpluses). 
For the PBoC, the swap lines are about underwriting the future (“Lend-Lease”). 
That’s a big difference. Now back to CBDCs and kudzu… 
The last time I saw a reference to kudzu was during the Great Financial Crisis 
when a journalist referred to AAA CDOs growing like kudzu. Back then, private  
AAA debt crowded out public AAA debt, which nearly killed the banking system.  
Today, CBDCs are interweaving BRICS central banks to replicate the global  
correspondent banking system that the U.S. dollar system runs on ,  
with potentially lethal consequences for the dollar’s supremacy. As the dollar 
became weaponized, momentum for CBDCs sped up: China obviously has one;  
India has one too; Brazil and Russia will launch one by 2024; and South Africa 
is a bit behind but “recognizes the value of having one”, and one might assume  
it will get fast-track help from fellow members of the BRICS club. Furthermore, 
 
 
29 December 2022  
War and Currency Statecraft 5 
among the aspiring BRICS members, the UAE already has one, and under 
“Project Aber”, the UAE and Saudi Arabia are exploring a “single dual-issued 
digital currency” for domestic and cross-border settlement between their countries. 
I am certain NEOM will use that digital currency too, and maybe all of the GCC  
will adopt is as its digital currency as well. If the UAE and Saudi Arabia are working 
on a dual-issued CBDC, that CBDC will likely be in the cards for the entire GCC. 
Add to that President Xi’s “ask” for renminbi settlement of oil and gas in 
exchange for transformative investments (“new paradigm”; see here and here), 
and you can see how “Project Aber” and an e-petroyuan threaten the petrodollar. 
And then there is President Xi’s reference to… 
…the “m-CBDC Bridge project” that the BIS calls Project mBridge (see here; 
words may have been  mixed up, but the two projects are  definitely the same), 
which recreates the correspondent banking system from scratch by interlinking 
central banks through CBDCs. The Fed  should be most careful with CBDCs : 
the might of the dollar runs through the global, hierarchical network of G -SIBs 
and correspondent banks that the swap lines were built to support during stress.  
The last thing we need is the Fed to hasten the demise of that hierarchy with the 
launch of its own CBDC. As Kindleberger used to say, “ governments propose, 
markets dispose”, and if Kindleberger ran the Federal Reserve today, I think he’d 
advocate for the preservation of the network of private banks and private dealers 
that have been spreading the dollar globally like kudzu since the end of WWII… 
Don’t fix what’s not broken… 
…the U.S. dollar system (among friends and allies) is fine as it is. Understand 
that the global East and South are going the CBDC route because the U.S. dollar 
was weaponized through the weaponization of the network of balance sheets 
that enables the dollar system . Like the Army and Navy are the arms of the state, 
the G7 central banks, banks, and dealers (all G-SIBs) that took part in freezing 
Russia’s FX reserves became the instruments of weaponizing the U.S. dollar… 
…and hence arms of the state in what we can bravely call a total financial war. 
Naturally, those who believe to be at risk of being sanctioned by the U.S.   
are trying to build something from scratch: not with the Fed atop, but the PBoC; 
not Fedwire, CHIPS, and SWIFT as separate systems, but CIPS as one system; 
not a network of G7 G -SIB banks, but a network of BRICS central banks; and 
not referencing the dollar in all FX transactions, but linking end -points directly 
(that is, why should someone in Hungary who has to pay someone in Singapore 
go through a chain of transactions and intermediaries that involve selling HUF 
for EUR, EUR for USD, and USD for SGD, when CBDCs allow the sale of HUF 
for SGD directly). CBDCs and the idea of replicating “the U.S. dollar network” 
with a network of central banks via CBDCs is revolutionary. Project mBridge  
is just the beginning, but it tells us the shape of things to come. For the Fed, 
I’d just reiterate: don’t fix what’s not broken . CBDCs are an existential threat. 
Don’t hasten the downtrend of the use of the dollar by dismantling “the hierarchy” 
through the launch of a regulated liability network. CBDCs won’t fix the crypto 
“problem”, so do not do CBDCs just to tame the fallout from FTX and all that… 
The crypto crowd wants not something that’s digital per se, but something the Fed 
won’t print, and let’s face it, dollars, digital or not, will again be printed soon  
– that’s certainly one message from the “BRICSpansion” and de-dollarization 
trends above. More QE is a-comin’… – there are many big problems ahead. 
We have a regulated liability network already. It’s called the bloody banking system. 
 
 
29 December 2022  
War and Currency Statecraft 6 
In a total financial war, central banks of the collective West should not fall into 
the trap of “CBDC-envy”. Recognize what you need and what you don’t need :  
if the State Department is working on pulling the G7 closer together, and  
the Pentagon is pulling NATO closer together, the last thing the Federal Reserve 
should do is to tear the network apart – the network of private balance sheets 
that dollar system runs on – with a CBDC. We have a digital system already  –  
I am fine holding a checking account at a bank and I function perfectly fine 
with a copy of my credit card on Amazon and my bank account on Venmo  
to buy the stuff I need . To emphasize: crypto is about the distaste for QE, not 
an appetite for digital cash per se, and the regulated liability network of the Fed 
offers digital cash, not “un-printable” money. In the U.S. we don’t need a CBDC. 
Now back to the opening question: 
what is a G7 rates strategist – yours truly – to do when geopolitic al trends are 
set to shape dollar funding and rates markets, and a total financial war and a 
total war for commodities (that is, the encumbrance of commodities, see here) 
has been and will remain a driver of price action. As Perry channels Kindleberger, 
“war cuts new channels”, and as I have warned about at length above, this year, 
the “BRICS+” appear to have accelerated the pace of cutting “new channels”… 
To better serve, I’m going to adapt… 
…and to better serve your investors, you should adapt too.  
Starting next year, my money dispatches will fall into three distinct categories: 
First, similar to my essays since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine this year,  
I will be writing some long, thematic dispatches that will explore geopolitics, 
commodities, and inflation and eventually define what Bretton Woods III means. 
Second, returning to past habits, I will resume writing Global Money Dispatches, 
which will continue to explore money markets, G-SIBs, and balance sheet trends. 
But I’ll resume these dispatches keeping in mind that over the next five years, 
the way the “ancien régime monétaire ” will trade will be heavily influenced by 
the rollout of a CBDC-based monetary system and de-dollarization in the East. 
I think this period will be similar to the rollout of Basel III , which also changed 
the way funding markets traded and served up a few curveballs along the way. 
Third, I’ll launch a new series of dispatches, the Bretton Woods III Dispatches, 
a series that will track the BRICS’ progress to build a new financial order.  
Once again, what regulators did to rates markets via the rollout of Basel III,  
BRICS heads of state will repeat with BRICSpansion, de -dollarization, and 
BRICS “coin”. But the process won’t be as transparent as Basel III was , and 
even with Basel III, despite full transparency, we didn’t always do our homework, 
which led to system-wide constraints, bottlenecks, and basis blowups at times. Still, 
Basel III was friendly currency statecraft. CBDCs will be the “hostile” cousin… 
Importantly, the new dispatches will come with new monitors to track the 
evolution of Bretton Woods III through prices and quantities. I realize that none 
of my pieces this year had charts i n them. They were “framework” essays to 
“imagine the future”. I think I now have a good idea of what the future looks like… 
…so monitors are coming next.  
The world is splitting in two. So is the monetary system. The dollar is at a crossroads.  
When I think of the dollar, I think of Jean-Claud Van Damme’s voiceover during 
his “epic split” (see here): preserving the dollar’s hegemony will be an “epic feat” ;  
like speedbumps for Van Damme, BRICS mean pain for “Jean-Claude Van Dollar”. 
Have a happy and healthy 2023… 
 
 
29 December 2022  
War and Currency Statecraft 7 
 
  
Additional Important Information  
This material has been prepared by the Investment Strategy Department personnel of Credit Suisse identified in this material as "Contributors" and not by Credit 
Suisse's Research Department. The information contained in this document has been provided as g eneral market commentary only and does not constitute any 
form of personal advice, legal, tax or other regulated financial advice or service. It is intended only to provide observatio ns and views of the Investment Strategy 
Department, which may be differen t from, or inconsistent with, the observations and views of Credit Suisse Research Department analysts, other Credit Suisse 
departments, or the proprietary positions of Credit Suisse. Observations and views expressed herein may be changed by the Inv estment Strategy Department at 
any time without notice. Credit Suisse accepts no liability for losses arising from the use or reliance on of this material. This material is not for distribution to retail 
clients and is directed exclusively at Credit Suisse’s institutional clients.  
FOR IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES on companies covered in Credit Suisse Global Markets Division research reports, please see http://www.credit-
suisse.com/researchdisclosures. To obtain a copy of the most recent Credit Suisse research on any company mentioned please contact your sales 
representative or go to http://www.credit-suisse.com/researchandanalytics.  
This material does not purport to contain all of the information that an interested party may desire and, in fact, provides o nly a limited view of a particular market. 
It is not investment research, or a research recommendation for regulatory purposes, as it does not constitute substantive re search or analysis. This material is 
provided for informational purposes only and does not constitute an invitation or offer to subscribe for or purchase any of the products or services mentioned.  
The information provided is not intended to provide a sufficient basis on which to make an investment decision and is not a p ersonal recommendation or 
investment advice. While it has been obtained from or based upon sources believed by the trader or sales personnel to be reliable, each of the  trader or sales 
personnel and Credit Suisse does not represent or warrant its accuracy or completeness and is not responsible for losses or damages arising from the use or 
reliance on of this material.  
Where distribution of this material is subject to the rules of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), it is a “solicitation” of derivatives 
business only as that term  is used within CFTC Rule 1.71 and 23.605 promulgated under the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (the “CFTC Rules”) where 
applicable, but is not a binding offer to buy/sell any financial instrument. The views of the author may differ from others a t Credit Suisse Group (including Credit 
Suisse Research).  
Credit Suisse is acting solely as an arm’s length contractual counterparty and not as a financial adviser (or in any other ad visory capacity including tax, legal, 
accounting or otherwise) or in a fiduciary capacity. Any information provided does not consti tute advice or a recommendation to enter into or conclude any 
transaction. Before entering into any transaction, you should ensure that you fully understand the potential risks and reward s and independently determine that it 
is appropriate for you given yo ur objectives, experience, financial and operational resources, and other relevant circumstances. You should consult with suc h 
advisers (including, without limitation, tax advisers, legal advisers and accountants) as you deem necessary.  
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("CSSEL") and Credit Suisse International ("CSI") are authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authori ty and regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") and the Prudential Regulation Authority under UK laws, which differ fro m Australian Laws. CSSEL and CSI do not 
hold an Australian Financial Services Licence ("AFSL") and are exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporat ions Act (Cth) 2001 
("Corporations Act") in respect of the financial services provided to A ustralian wholesale clients (within the meaning of section 761G of the Corporations Act) 
(hereinafter referred to as “Financial Services”). This material is not for distribution to retail clients and is directed ex clusively at Credit Suisse's professional 
clients and eligible counterparties as defined by the FCA, and wholesale clients as defined under section 761G of the Corpora tions Act. Credit Suisse (Hong 
Kong) Limited ("CSHK") is licensed and regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Ko ng under the laws of Hong Kong, which differ from 
Australian laws. CSHKL does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in  respect of providing 
Financial Services. Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limi ted (ABN 35 068 232 708) ("CSEAL") is an AFSL holder in Australia (AFSL 237237). In Australia, 
this material may only be distributed to Wholesale investors as defined in the Corporations Act. CSEAL is not an authorised d eposit taking institution and 
products described herein do not represent deposits or other liabilities of Credit Suisse AG, Sydney Branch. Credit Suisse AG, Sydn ey Branch does not 
guarantee any particular rate of return on, or the performance of any products described.  
This material is distributed in the European Union by Credit Suisse Bank (Europe), S.A. regulated by the Comision Nacional del Mercado de Valores.  
If this material is issued and distributed in the U.S., it is by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (“CSSU”), a member of NYS E, FINRA, SIPC and the NFA, and 
CSSU accepts responsibility for its contents. Clients should contact sales coverage and execute transactions through a Credit  Suisse subsidiary or affiliate in 
their home jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise. Inve stment banking services in the United States are provided by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) 
LLC, an affiliate of Credit Suisse Group. CSSU is regulated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under Uni ted States laws, which differ 
from Australian laws. CSSU does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in resp ect of providing 
Financial Services. Credit Suisse Asset Management LLC (CSAM) is authorised by the Securities and Exchange Commiss ion under US laws, which differ from 
Australian laws. CSAM does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing Financial 
Services.  
If this material is issued and distributed in Japan,  it is issued and distributed in Japan by Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Limited, Financial Instruments Firm, 
Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Kinsho) No. 66, a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Financial Future s Association of 
Japan, Japan Investment Advisers Association, Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association. This report has been prepared and issued for distribution in 
Japan to Credit Suisse’s clients, including institutional investors.  
This report may not be  reproduced either in whole or in part, without the written permission of Credit Suisse. All trademarks, service marks and log os used in 
this document are trademarks or service marks or registered trademarks or service marks of Credit Suisse or its informa tion providers. All material presented in 
this document, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under copyright to Credit Suisse or its information providers. Cop yright © 2022 Credit Suisse Group 
AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
 