 
 
 
Credit Suisse Economics  
 
War and Commodity Encumbrance 
 
 
 
War encumbers commodities. 
A recurring theme in my dispatches this year has been that in a moment when 
the world is going from unipolar to multipolar, the actions of heads of state  
are far more important than the actions of central banks. That  is because  
heads of state lead, their actions affect inflation, and central banks merely follow  
by hiking rates to “clean up”. Central banks will be behind the curve in this game,  
and if investors read only the speeches of central bankers but not statesmen,  
they will be even more behind the curve. The multipolar world order is being built  
not by G7 heads of state but by the “G7 of the East” (the BRICS heads of state), 
which is a G5 really but because of “BRICSpansion”, I took the liberty to round up. 
The special relationship between China and Russia has a financial agenda to it, 
and what President Xi and President Putin say about the future of money  
– that is, the future they envision – matters for the future of the U.S. dollar and 
liquidity in the U.S. Treasury market. Their actions are forging something new : 
Bretton Woods III is slowly taking shape, and in light of developments to date, 
my motto for Bretton Woods III – “our commodity, your problem” – remains apt. 
President Xi’s visit with Saudi and GCC leaders marks the birth of the petroyuan 
and a leap in China’s growing encumbrance of OPEC+’s oil and gas reserves: 
with the China-GCC Summit, China can claim to have built a “special relationship” 
not only with the “+” sign in OPEC+ (Russia), but with Iran and all of OPEC+…  
President Xi’s visit was the very first China-Arab States Summit in history, and 
echoes FDR’s meeting with King Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud on Valentine’s Day 1945 
aboard an American cruiser, the USS Quincy. Fixed income investors should care 
– not just because the invoicing of oil in renminbi will hurt the dollar’s might, 
but also because commodity encumbrance means more inflation for the West. 
Here are the key parts from President Xi’s speech at the China-GCC Summit 
(all emphasis with orange underlines are mine): “In the next three to five years, 
China is ready to work with GCC countries in the followi ng priority areas:  
first, setting up a new paradigm of all-dimensional energy cooperation, where 
China will continue to import large quantities of crude oil on a long -term basis 
from GCC countries, and purchase more LNG. We will strengthen our cooperation 
in the upstream sector, engineering services, as well as [downstream] storage, 
transportation, and refinery. The Shanghai Petroleum and Natural Gas Exchange 
platform will be fully utilized for RMB settlement in oil and gas trade, […] and we 
could start currency swap cooperation and advance the m-CBDC Bridge project”.  
  
27 December 2022 
Investment Solutions & Sustainability 
Global 
 
Important Information  
THIS IS NOT RESEARCH. PLEASE REFER TO THE IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES AND CONTACT YOUR CREDIT 
SUISSE REPRESENTATIVE FOR MORE DETAILS. This report represents the views of the Investment Strategy Department 
of Credit Suisse and has not been prepared in accordance with the legal requirements designed to promote the independence 
of investment research. It is not a product of the Credit Suisse Research Department and the view of the Investment Strategy 
Department may differ materially from the views of the Credit Suis se Research Department and other divisions at Credit 
Suisse, even if it references published research recommendations. Credit Suisse has a number of policies in place to promote 
the independence of Credit Suisse ’s Research Departments from Credit Suisse ’s Investment Strategy-and other departments 
and to manage conflicts of interest, including policies relating to dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research . 
These policies do not apply to the views of Investment Strategists contained in this re port.  
 
 
CONTRIBUTORS 
Zoltan Pozsar 
212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com 
 
  
 
 
27 December 2022  
War and Commodity Encumbrance 2 
Let’s dissect President Xi’s comments bit by bit, and color them with other 
pieces of information as we go along. First, what is the “duration” of this theme? 
It’s pretty short: in the words of President Xi , “the next three to five years ”.  
In market terms, that means that five-year forward five-year inflation breakevens 
should be discounting a world in which oil and gas is invoiced not only in dollars 
but also renminbi, and in which some oil and gas is not available for the West  
at low prices (and in dollars) because they have been encumbered by the East. 
But it does not appear that breakeven expectations reflect anything like that…  
My sense is that the market is starting to realize that the world is going from 
unipolar to multipolar politically, but the market has yet to make the leap that   
in the emerging multipolar world order, cross-currency bases will be smaller, 
commodity bases will be greater, and inflation rates in the West will be higher… 
Inflation traders should be paranoid, not complacent. As Andy Grove said,  
“only the paranoid survive”, but when I asked a small group of inflation traders 
over dinner in London this summer about how the market (they) comes up with 
five-year forward five-year breakevens, I did not sense any degree of paranoia 
in their answer: “ there is no top -down or bottom-up work that we do to come 
up with our estimates; we t ake central banks’ inflation targets as a given and 
the rest is liquidity”. Inflation breakevens do not seem to price any geopolitical risk. 
Second, “paradigm” in “a new paradigm of all-dimensional energy cooperation” 
is a symbolic word. The meeting between FDR and King Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud 
was a new paradigm too : the U.S.’s security guarantees for the kingdom for 
access to affordable oil supplies. Over time, the paradigm boiled down to this:  
the U.S. imported oil and paid for it with U.S. dollars, which Saudi Arabia spent 
on Treasuries and arms and recycle d the leftovers as deposits in U.S. banks. 
(In the wake of the OPEC shocks of the 1970s, that recycling of petrodollars 
led to the Latin American debt crisis in the 1980s.) The old paradigm worked… 
…until it didn’t:  
the U.S. is now less reliant on oil from the Middle East owing to the shale revolution, 
while China is the largest importer of oil; security relations are in flux (see here); 
Saudi holdings of U.S. Treasuries and bank deposits are down as the kingdom 
went from funding the U.S. government and banks to owning equity in firms ; 
and the Saudi crown prince said recently that the kingdom could reduce its 
investments in the U.S. (see here). Similar patterns hold in other GCC countries. 
The “new paradigm ” between China , Saudi Arabia , and GCC countries is 
fundamentally different from the one struck aboard USS Quincy. Naturally so, 
as China is now dealing with a rich Middle East, whereas FDR was dealing with a 
Middle East that had just started to develop. With wealth, power and priorities shift:  
back then, “liquidity and security” were more important for an emerging region; 
today, “equity and respect” are more important for what has become an eminent region. 
That is what China offered: “all-dimensional energy cooperation” means not just taking 
oil for cash and arms but investing in the region in the “ downstream sector” 
and leveraging the regional know-how for cooperation in the “upstream sector” 
– “upstream” could potentially mean the joint exploration of oil in the South China Sea.  
Furthermore, Xi’s “ all-dimensional energy cooperation” also means working in 
cooperation on the “localized production of new energy equipment” (see here). 
Put differently, “oil for development” (plants and jobs) crowded out “oil for arms” –  
the Belt and Road Initiative met Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030 in a big win-win… 
 
 
27 December 2022  
War and Commodity Encumbrance 3 
Third, the “new paradigm” will not be funded with U.S. dollars: 
President Xi noted that “the Shanghai Petroleum and Natural Gas Exchange 
[…] will be fully utilized for RMB settlement in oil and gas trade”. President Xi’s 
comments that “China will continue to import large quantities of crude oil on a 
long-term basis from  GCC countries, and purchase more LNG” underscores the 
gravity of the underlined quote: combined, the two basically say that China, 
already the largest buyer of oil and gas from GCC countries, will buy even more 
in the future, and wants to pay for all of it in renminbi over the next three to five years. 
Again, think of the timing of this statement in a diplomatic sense: President Xi 
communicated his message on “renminbi invoicing” not during the first day of 
his visit – when he met only the Saudi leadership – but during the second day of 
his visit – when he met the leadership of all the GCC countries – to in part signal… 
…GCC oil flowing East + renminbi invoicing = the dawn of the petroyuan. 
Good morning! 
Given the scope of priority areas in which China plans to work with GCC countries 
– the sale of clean energy infrastructure, big data and cloud computing centers, 
5G and 6G projects, and cooperation in smart manufacturing and space exploration 
as per Xi’s speech – there will be many avenues through which GCC countries 
will be able to decumulate the renminbi they earn from selling oil and gas to China.  
And if, perish the thought, any GCC country were to accumulate some surplus cash 
in “non-convertible” renminbi, just as President Xi’s plane was landing in Riyadh, 
the PBoC revealed that during 2022, it had re-started gold purchases with gusto. 
Why do China’s gold purchases matter in the context of renminbi settlement?  
Because at the 2018 BRICS Summit, China launched a renminbi-denominated  
oil futures contract on the Shanghai International Energy Exchange, and since 
2016 and 2017, the renminbi has been convertible to gold  on the Shanghai 
and Hong Kong Gold Exchanges, respectively. Not a bad deal, this renminbi… 
Paraphrasing Forrest Gump, “you can spend it on solar panels, wind turbines,  
data centers, telecommunications equipment, or space projects to create jobs, 
or you can just recycle it at some bank or just convert it to good old gold bars. 
Money is as money does, and convertibility to gold beats convertibility to dollars”. 
President Xi’s “three- to five-year horizon” means that by 2025, the GCC may be 
paid in renminbi for all of the oil and gas that they will be shipping east to China. 
Fourth, “plumbing” references in Xi’s speech add further gravity to the above… 
When was the last time you heard a head of state talk about swap lines and 
central bank digital currencies (CBDC)? And not just any CBDC, but a specific one: 
“the m-CBDC Bridge project” (see here). 
The m-CBDC Bridge project, or as the BIS likes to refer to it, Project mBridge, 
is a masterclass in plumbing: undertaken by the PBoC, the Bank of Thailand, 
the HKMA, and the Central Bank of the United Arab Emirates, the project 
enables real-time, peer-to-peer, cross-border, and foreign exchange transactions 
using CBDCs, and does so without involving the U.S. dollar or the network of Western 
correspondent banks that the U.S. dollar system runs on. Pretty interesting, no? 
In a very Uncle Sam-like fashion (see here), China wants more of the GCC’s oil, 
wants to pay for it with renminbi , and wants the GCC to accept e-renminbi on 
the m-CBDC Bridge platform, so don’t hesitate – join the mBridge fast train… 
 
 
27 December 2022  
War and Commodity Encumbrance 4 
And finally, President Xi’s reference to starting “currency swap cooperation”, 
reminded me of using swap lines as  analogues of the Lend-Lease agreement 
whereby the U.S. lent dollars to Britain to buy arms to fight Germany during WWII:  
now we fight climate change and if you don’t earn renminbi to build NEOM,  
no problem at all, we can swap your local currency for my local currency 
whereby I lend you some renminbi and then you can buy the stuff you need, 
and when you will start selling me oil for renminbi, you can pay off the swap lines. 
All I care about is that you don’t pay for imports from me in U.S. dollars, because 
I have enough U.S. dollars already and I don’t want to add to my sanctions risk. 
The “m-CBDC Bridge project” offers further leads down the monetary rabbit hole:  
I didn’t understand “why” when I first read about Russia requesting oil payments 
from India in United Arab Emirates dirhams, but now I do : dirhams “appeal” to 
Russia because the Central Bank of the UAE is a member of m-CBDC Bridge, 
and so dirhams can be sold for renminbi using central bank digital currencies  
and thus away from the Western banking system. This does not necessarily 
have to go through the m-CBDC Bridge project per se, but the existence of it 
implies that some CBDCs are already interlinked to facilitate interstate payments 
“off the Western system”. Then, perhaps inspired by Russia’s payment request, 
on December 6th, Bloomberg ran a story about India and the UAE working on a 
rupee-dirham payment mechanism to bypass the U.S. dollar in bilateral trade, a 
mechanism that will include payments for oil and gas purchases from the UAE. 
Do take a step back and consider… that since the beginning of this year, 2022, 
Russia has been selling oil to China for renminbi, and to India for UAE dirhams; 
India and the UAE are working on settling oil and gas trades in dirhams by 2023; 
and China is asking the GCC to “fully” utilize Shanghai’s exchanges to settle all 
oil and gas sales to China in renminbi by 2025. That’s dusk for the petrodollar… 
…and dawn for the petroyuan. Now on to the topic of commodity encumbrance. 
In money and banking, the word “encumbrance” is typically used in the context 
of transactions involving collateral: if collateral is pledged to a specific trade,  
it’s referred to as “encumbered”, which means it can’t be used to do other trades. 
If encumbrance becomes extreme, collateral gets scarce, which typically shows up 
as interest rates on scarce pieces of collateral trading deeply below OIS rates… 
Under Bretton Woods III, a system in which commodities are collateral, 
encumbrance means that commodities can get scarce in certain parts of the world  
– and that scarcity shows up as inflation “printing” far above inflation targets… 
To see what encumbrance means in the context of the oil and gas markets today, 
let’s start with the geographic scope of OPEC+, that is , OPEC plus Russia : 
the original founding members of OPEC were the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, 
Saudi Arabia , Kuwait , and Venezuela  in 1960, which were later joined by  
Qatar (1961), Indonesia (1962), Libya (1962), the United Arab Emirates (1967), 
Algeria (1969), Nigeria (1971), Ecuador (1973), Gabon (1975), Angola (2007), 
Equatorial Guinea (2017), and Congo (2018). Russia joined OPEC in 2016 –  
a union that forged OPEC+. Think of OPEC+ as follows: Russia, Iran, the GCC,  
Latin American producers, North African producers, West African producers, 
and Indonesia. I left out Iraq, where ISIS is complicating the overall picture,  
but the rest of the groupings show how China is starting to dominate OPEC+: 
First, Russia and China have their famous special relationship , and since the 
outbreak of hostilities in Ukraine, China has been paying for Russian oil in renminbi  
at a steep discount. As President Putin remarked, “China drives a hard bargain”. 
 
 
27 December 2022  
War and Commodity Encumbrance 5 
Second, Iran and China have also had a special relationship since March 27, 2021  
– the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership  – a 25 -year “deal” under which 
China committed to invest $400 billion into Iran’s economy in exchange for a 
steady supply of Iranian oil at a steep discount. The deal included $280 billion 
toward developing downstream petrochemical sectors (refining and plastics) 
and $120 billion toward Iran’s transportation and manufacturing infrastructure. 
Specifically, under the agreement, “China will be able to buy any and all Iranian 
oil, gas , and petrochemical products at a minimum guaranteed discount of  
12 percent to the six-month rolling mean price of comparable benchmark products, 
plus another 6 to 8 percent on top for risk-adjusted compensation” (see here). 
This means that Iran is selling its oil to China at about the same price as Russia, 
or maybe in reverse, as the Iran deal predates the post-Ukraine prices for Russia! 
Third, Venezuela has been accepting payments for oil in renminbi since  2019 
(see here) and has also been selling oil to China at steep discounts (see here). 
Fourth, Xi’s GCC “pitch” was similar to the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership 
with Iran – investments in downstream petrochemical  projects, manufacturing,  
and infrastructure – plus some higher  value-added projects for Saudi Arabia  
to aid Riyadh’s Silicon Valley aspirations. Because the GCC aren’t sanctioned, 
China didn’t ask for any steep discounts, but it did ask for renminbi settlement. 
Let’s stop here for a moment. Russia, Iran , and Venezuela account for about 
40 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves, and each of them are currently selling 
oil to China for renminbi at a steep discount. The GCC cou ntries account for 
40 percent of proven oil reserves as well – Saudi Arabia has a half of that ,  
and the other GCC countries the other half – and are being courted by China 
to accept renminbi for their oil in exchange for transformative investments –  
the “new paradigm” we discussed above. To underscore, the U.S. has sanctioned 
half of OPEC with 40 percent of the world’s oil reserves and lost them to China, 
while China is courting the other half of OPEC with an offer that’s hard to refuse… 
The remaining 20 percent of proven oil reserves are in North and West Africa 
and Indonesia. Geopolitically, North Africa is dominated by Russia at present 
(see here), West Africa by China, and Indonesia has its own agenda (see below). 
Commodity encumbrance here means that over the next “ three to five years ”, 
China will not only pay for more oil in renminbi (crowding out the U.S. dollar), 
but new investments in downstream petrochemical industries in Iran, Saudi Arabia, 
and the GCC more broadly mean that in the future, much more value-added 
will be captured locally at the expense of industries in the West. Think of this 
as a “farm -to-table” model: I used to sell my chicken and vegetables to you, 
and you sold soup for a markup in your five -star restaurant, but from now on ,  
I’ll make the soup myself and you’ll get to import it in a can – my oil, my jobs, 
your spend, “our commodity, your problem. “Our commodity, our emancipation”. 
Commodity encumbrance has had its first major casualty in  Europe already: 
BASF’s decision to permanently downsize its operations at its main plant in 
Ludwigshafen and instead shift its chemical operations to China was motivated 
by the fact that China is securing energy at discounts, not markups like Europe. 
Collateral encumbrance means encumbrance from the perspective of someone 
pledging collateral to a dealer. Dealers in turn rehypothecate pledged collateral.  
Commodity rehypothecation will work the same way: heavily discounted oil and 
locally produced chemicals invoiced in renminbi mean encumbrance by the East, 
and the marginal re -export of oil and chemicals also for renminbi to the West 
means commodity rehypothecation for a profit, i.e., an “East-to-West” spread… 
 
 
27 December 2022  
War and Commodity Encumbrance 6 
We are starting to see examples of commodity rehypothecation already: 
China became a big exporter of Russian LNG to Europe, and India a big exporter 
of Russian oil and refined products such as diesel to Europe (see here and here). 
We should expect more “rehypothecation” in the future across more products 
and invoiced not just in euros and dollars, but also renminbi, dirhams, and rupees. 
But commodity encumbrance has a darker, “institutional” aspect to it too… 
What I described above is a de facto state of affairs, in which Russia, Iran, and 
Venezuela have effectively pledged their resources to the BRICS and Belt and Road 
“cause”, and China is courting the GCC to do the same under a “new paradigm”. 
But there is also a de jure version of the commodity encumbrance theme, and 
here is where a recent speech by President Putin comes in. On June 22, 2022, 
at the BRICS Business Forum – a WEF-like meeting of the “G7 of the East” – 
President Putin noted that “the creation of an international reserve currency 
based on a basket of currencies of our countries is being worked on” (see here). 
This “reserve currency project” took off after China failed to reform the SDR,  
and its antecedents were chronicled in a recent book by Zoe Liu and Mihaela Papa:  
Can the BRICS De-Dollarize the Global Financial System (see here). The book 
was funded by the Rising Power Alliances Project  at the Fletcher School of 
Tufts University, which in turn was funded by the U.S. Department of Defense.  
It would seem to me that if the DoD has a keen interest in the topic  of  
de-dollarization, market participants should have one as well, and should also add  
commodity encumbrance to the list. Now back to Putin’s “BRICS coin” idea… 
When a G7 rates strategist or trader starts looking at the “G7 of the East ”,  
he or she will realize that institutions and people are different, but they do exist.  
Regarding the development of an “international reserve currency” à la the SDR,  
Sergei Glazyev has been in charge . Since 2019, Glazyev has been serving as 
minister in charge of integration and macroeconomics of the EEC, that is, the 
Eurasian Economic Commission. He strikes me as someone similar to Liu He, 
who President Xi introduced to a former U.S. national secur ity advisor saying: 
“This is Liu He. He is very important to me ”. Given his recent progress report 
on “BRICS coin”, Sergei Glazyev seems to be very important to President Putin. 
Regarding “institutionalized commodity encumbrance”, the comments I could find 
about the “BRICS coin”  project from Glazyev revolve around the methodology 
to determine the weight of each participating currency in the “coin”. Specifically: 
“should [a nation] reserve a portion of [its] natural resources for the backing  
of the new economic system, [its] respective weight in the currency basket of 
the new monetary unit would increase accordingly, providing that nation with 
larger currency reserves and credit c apacity. In addition, bilateral swap lines  
with trading partner countries would provide them with adequate financing for 
co-investments and trade financing” (see here). Hm. Swap lines again to facilitate 
trade and investments, and a de jure  vision for commodity encumbrance in 
exchange for boosting a country’s “credit line” in an alternative economic system. 
It seems to me that “new paradigms” come in pairs…  
Attention needs to be paid to the goings -on of  the global East and South, 
especially given that this year Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and Iran have all started  
their application to the BRICS (see here). Furthermore, following this year’s 
Shanghai Cooperation  Organization ( SCO) Summit in Samarkand, the SCO  
– “the NATO of the East” – granted dialogue partner status to “half the GCC”  
– Saudi Arabia and Qatar – and started procedures to admit Iran as a member…  
 
 
27 December 2022  
War and Commodity Encumbrance 7 
In Riyadh, President Xi referred to “a garden of civilizations” in the context of the 
Belt and Road Initiative (see here). Unless they involve Adam, Eve, and a snake, 
gardens typically refer to a happy and peaceful place. Now consider that if 
Russia and Iran get along,  China and Iran get along, Russia and Saudi Arabia 
get along, and China and Saudi Arabia get along, then the foreign ministers of 
Saudi Arabia and Iran engaging in what the FT called “friendly talks” last week 
(see here) means more momentum for Belt and Road, BRICS+, and “BRICS coin”. 
Indeed, for  the Belt and Road Initiative to work, the region has to be a 
peaceful “garden of civilizations”, and for “the enemy of my enemy is my friend” 
to work, a Great Power needs to befriend the enemy of a  rival Great Power.  
But that strategy is increasingly hard to implement in the Middle Eastern “region” 
of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI): the great powers of the Eurasian landmass  
– China and Russia – are bound by a “special relationship” , and each of them 
have good a relationship with each of the great powers of the Middle East, and 
all of them have much to gain from building a new economic and monetary system. 
The China-GCC Summit is one thing, and China’s strategic partnership with Iran 
is another, but both Saudi Arabia and Iran applying to pillar institutions of the 
multipolar world order – BRICS+ and the SCO – at t he same exact time,  
plus the idea of “BRICS coin” as a commodity -weighted neutral reserve asset  
that encourages members to pledge their commodities to the BRICS “cause”, 
should have G7 bond investors concerned, b ecause these trends may keep 
inflation from slowing and interest rates from falling for the rest of this decade. 
Finally, the de facto and de jure commodity encumbrance themes described 
above have an even graver inflationary undertone if you consider the following:  
over the past decade, all growth in global oil production came from U.S. shale 
and other non -conventional sources such as Canadian tar sands. We know 
from official comments following President Biden’s visit to Saudi Arabia that 
the kingdom is currently “pumping” at capacity and will be able to boost output 
by only one million barrels per day by 2025 and then “no more”. In light of that, 
consider that production from shale fields has peaked and recall some recent 
comments from the largest shale operator in the U.S. that more drilling would 
harm the shale industry (see here). It appears to me that unless the U.S. 
nationalizes shale oil fields and starts to drill for oil itself to boost production, 
over the next three to five years, we’re looking at an inelastic supply of oil and gas… 
…and of that inelastic supply: 
(1) China will get a bigger share at a discount, invoiced in renminbi. 
(2) China will export more downstream products at a wider margin, and… 
(3) China will lure more firms like BASF with discounted energy bills. 
(4) Iran, with Chinese capital, will do more downstream exports too, and… 
(5) GCC countries, with Chinese capital, ditto, most likely for renminbi. 
The “ new paradigm ”, as I see it , comes with a theme of “ emancipation”:  
both sanctioned and non-sanctioned members of OPEC, with Chinese capital, 
are going to adopt the “farm -to-table” model in which they will not just sell oil  
but will also refine more of it and process more of it into high value -added 
petrochemical products. Given supply constraints over “the next three to five years”, 
this will likely be at the expense of refiners and petrochemical firms in the West, 
and also growth in the West. All this means much less domestic production and 
more inflation as steadily price-inflating alternatives are imported from the East. 
And this is not just about oil and gas… 
 
 
27 December 2022  
War and Commodity Encumbrance 8 
Earlier this year, President Widodo of Indonesia (an OPEC member since 1962) 
called for an OPEC-style cartel for battery metals for EVs. Resource nationalism 
is in the air, but markets don’t seem to price it as a potential driver of inflation. 
Consider that shortly after President Widodo floated his idea on October 30, 2022, 
on November 15, 2022, the G7 gave Indonesia $20 billion to move away from coal 
(see here). Then, on December 14, 2022, the G7 gave Vietnam $15 billion too  
(see here) to do the same . Great Powers are spending a lot to keep commodities 
and friend-shoring locations in their orbit at affordable prices. One would suspect 
these “outlays” are a part of the G7’s $600 billion earmarked to counter China’s 
Belt and Road Initiative (see here). Here is the point: major amounts of money 
are being mobilized to cut off big, fat tail risks to inflation, and to re-emphasize… 
…five-year forward five -year breakeven inflation expectations do not price 
geopolitical risk. I also believe that most inflation traders may not appreciate that 
the future path of inflation in the West is being “bought” in $15 to $20 billion “clips” 
one commodity and one region at a time – commodity encumbrance is a real risk. 
Commodity encumbrance cuts in the other direction too… 
Consider that on November 3, 2022, Canada ordered three Chinese firms to 
exit lithium mining (see here). In simple terms, commodity encumbrance means… 
…a total war for the control of commodities. 
President Xi’s “ next three to five years ” of implementing the “ new paradigm” 
and the risks of resource nationalism and “BRICS coin” means this for G7 rates: 
when you look at the yield curve and think about the five-year section and then 
the forward five-year section, by the time the forward five -year section starts, 
President Xi may have accomplished his “next three- to five-year” goal of paying 
for China’s oil and gas imports exclusively in renminbi and may have advanced 
commodity encumbrance by developing  downstream petrochemical industries  
in the Middle East “region” of Belt and Road and also the rollout of “BRICS coin”.  
I don ’t think five-year forward five -year rates are  pricing the future correctly: 
breakevens appear to be blind to geopolitical risks and the likelihood of the above.  
If the above scenario won’t come to pass, it will be due to a big, global fight…  
But a fight like that takes time to conclude, and in its wake, forward five-years 
should still be different. Or maybe not, if yield curve control funds reconstruction, 
but under that scenario, bond investors will be subject to financial repression… 
Five-year forward five-year breakeven inflation expectations now make little sense. 
For two generations of investors, geopolitics did not matter. This time is different: 
it’s time to get real and it’s time to start pricing the secular end of “lowflation”… 
Recognize two things: first, that inflation has been driven by non-linear shocks 
(a pandemic; stimulus; supply chain issues involving laptops, chips , and cars; 
post-pandemic labor shortages; and then the war in Ukraine), and second, that 
inflation forecasts treat geopolitics in the rearview mirror. Don’t be too DSGE… 
…think about inflation with geopolitics, resource nationalism, and “BRICS coin” 
in mind as the next set of non-linear shocks that will keep inflation above target, 
forcing central banks to hike interest rates above 5% and keep them high as they… 
…“clean up” the inflation mess caused by Great Power conflict. 
This year was just the beginning. Next year sets the stage for BRICS and the BRI: 
in April, China will host the fourth Belt and Road Forum (the WEF of the East). 
Following forums in 2017 and 2019, but not 2021 due to Covid, the coming forum  
will be hosted by a China that, while in lockdown, forged a bond with all of OPEC+. 
 
 
27 December 2022  
War and Commodity Encumbrance 9 
 
  
Additional Important Information  
This material has been prepared by the Investment Strategy Department personnel of Credit Suisse identified in this material as "Contributors" and not by Credit 
Suisse's Research Department. The information contained in this document has been provided as general market commentary only and does not constitute any 
form of personal advice, legal, tax or other regulated financial advice or service. It is intended only to provide observatio ns and views of the Investment Strategy 
Department, which may be different from, or inconsistent with, the observations and views of Credit Suisse Research Departmen t analysts, other Credit Suisse 
departments, or the proprietary positions of Credit Suisse. Observations and views expressed herein may be changed by the Investment Strategy Department at 
any time without notice. Credit Suisse accepts no liability for losses arising from the use or reliance on of this material. This material is not for distribution to retail 
clients and is directed exclusively at Credit Suisse’s institutional clients.  
FOR IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES on companies covered in Credit Suisse Global Markets Division research reports, please see http://www.credit-
suisse.com/researchdisclosures. To obtain a copy of the most recent Credit Suisse research on any company mentioned please contact your sales 
representative or go to http://www.credit-suisse.com/researchandanalytics.  
This material does not purport to contain all of the information that an interested party may desire and, in fact, provides only a limited view of a particular market. 
It is not investment research, or a research recommendation fo r regulatory purposes, as it does not constitute substantive research or analysis. This material is 
provided for informational purposes only and does not constitute an invitation or offer to subscribe for or purchase any of the products or services mentioned.  
The information provided is not intended to provide a sufficient basis on which to make an investment decision and is not a p ersonal recommendation or 
investment advice. While it has been obtained from or based upon sources believed by the trader or s ales personnel to be reliable, each of the trader or sales 
personnel and Credit Suisse does not represent or warrant its accuracy or completeness and is not responsible for losses or d amages arising from the use or 
reliance on of this material.  
Where dist ribution of this material is subject to the rules of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), it is a “solicit ation” of derivatives 
business only as that term is used within CFTC Rule 1.71 and 23.605 promulgated under the U.S. Commodity Exch ange Act (the “CFTC Rules”) where 
applicable, but is not a binding offer to buy/sell any financial instrument. The views of the author may differ from others a t Credit Suisse Group (including Credit 
Suisse Research).  
Credit Suisse is acting solely as an a rm’s length contractual counterparty and not as a financial adviser (or in any other advisory capacity including tax, legal, 
accounting or otherwise) or in a fiduciary capacity. Any information provided does not constitute advice or a recommendation to enter into or conclude any 
transaction. Before entering into any transaction, you should ensure that you fully understand the potential risks and rewards and independently determine that it 
is appropriate for you given your objectives, experience, financial a nd operational resources, and other relevant circumstances. You should consult with such 
advisers (including, without limitation, tax advisers, legal advisers and accountants) as you deem necessary.  
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("CSSEL") and Credit Suisse International ("CSI") are authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") and the Prudential Regulation Authority under UK laws, which differ from Australia n Laws. CSSEL and CSI do no t 
hold an Australian Financial Services Licence ("AFSL") and are exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporat ions Act (Cth) 2001 
("Corporations Act") in respect of the financial services provided to Australian wholesale clients (within th e meaning of section 761G of the Corporations Act) 
(hereinafter referred to as “Financial Services”). This material is not for distribution to retail clients and is directed ex clusively at Credit Suisse's professional 
clients and eligible counterparties as  defined by the FCA, and wholesale clients as defined under section 761G of the Corporations Act. Credit Suisse (Hong 
Kong) Limited ("CSHK") is licensed and regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong under the laws of Hong  Kong, which differ from 
Australian laws. CSHKL does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in  respect of providing 
Financial Services. Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited (ABN 35 068 232 708) ("CSEAL") is an AFSL holder in Australia (AFSL 237237). In Australia, 
this material may only be distributed to Wholesale investors as defined in the Corporations Act. CSEAL is not an authorised d eposit taking institution and 
products described herein do not represent d eposits or other liabilities of Credit Suisse AG, Sydney Branch. Credit Suisse AG, Sydney Branch does not 
guarantee any particular rate of return on, or the performance of any products described.  
This material is distributed in the European Union by Credit Suisse Bank (Europe), S.A. regulated by the Comision Nacional del Mercado de Valores.  
If this material is issued and distributed in the U.S., it is by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (“CSSU”), a member of NYS E, FINRA, SIPC and the NFA, and 
CSSU accepts responsibility for its contents. Clients should contact sales coverage and execute transactions through a Credit Suisse su bsidiary or affiliate in 
their home jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise. Investment banking services in the United States are provided by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) 
LLC, an affiliate of Credit Suisse Group. CSSU is regulated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under Uni ted States laws, which differ 
from Australian laws. CSSU does not hold an AFS L and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing 
Financial Services. Credit Suisse Asset Management LLC (CSAM) is authorised by the Securities and Exchange Commission under U S laws, which differ from 
Australian laws. CSAM does not hold an AFSL and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act in respect of providing Financial 
Services.  
If this material is issued and distributed in Japan, it is issued and distributed in Japan  by Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Limited, Financial Instruments Firm, 
Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Kinsho) No. 66, a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Financial Future s Association of 
Japan, Japan Investment Adviser s Association, Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association. This report has been prepared and issued for distribution in 
Japan to Credit Suisse’s clients, including institutional investors.  
This report may not be reproduced either in whole or in part,  without the written permission of Credit Suisse. All trademarks, service marks and logos used in 
this document are trademarks or service marks or registered trademarks or service marks of Credit Suisse or its information p roviders. All material presented in 
this document, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under copyright to Credit Suisse or its information providers. Cop yright © 2022 Credit Suisse Group 
AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.  
 