DISCLOSURE APPENDIX AT THE BACK OF THIS REPORT CONTAINS IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES AND 
ANALYST CERTIFICATIONS.  
Global Money Notes #5
What Excess Reserves?
2016 is shaping up to be an important year for the Federal Reserve.
Before the year is over, the Fed will conclude the review of its long-run 
monetary policy implementation framework, which will include thoughts on the 
size and composition of its balance sheet in the long run. One conclusion of the 
review will be that there is limited scope to shrink the balance sheet, in our view. 
This is because the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) coupled with the Fed’s 
preference that banks hold significant amounts of reserves as high-quality liquid 
assets (HQLA) represents a step change in the amount of reserves banks will 
have to hold – not to comply with reserve requirements but with the LCR.
In the LCR we have what is essentially a global reserve requirement regime, 
where regulators prefer reserves over bonds as the primary source of liquidity 
(for U.S. banks) and reserves over bank deposits as the settlement medium for 
Eurodollar transactions (for the New York branches of foreign banks).
With Basel III constraining the size and elasticity of matched repo books – the 
hearts whose beats gave market liquidity a pulse – bond market liquidity will 
never be what it once was. Regulators know this. After all they were the ones 
who designed the new system and constrained repo and with it market liquidity.
They do realize that in the post-Basel III world order base liquidity (reserves) will 
inevitably have to replace market-based liquidity. This in turn means that there 
are no excess reserves – every penny is needed by banks for LCR compliance. 
And this also means that the Fed has only a limited ability to shrink its portfolio.
The Fed will also have no choice but to scrap the fed funds rate as its policy 
target and replace it with the overnight bank funding rate in 2016, in our view.
This will be a necessity, not a choice. One side-effect of the LCR is that the fed 
funds market will fade into irrelevance as banks no longer hold their liquidity 
buffers in unsecured interbank markets, but rather in secured repo markets 
(versus Treasury collateral) or by accumulating reserves at the central bank.
Switchover to the OBFR will be a big deal for at least two reasons: it will be a 
switch from an interbank rate to a customer-to-bank target rate and it will be a 
switch from an onshore dollar funding rate to a global dollar target rate.
The Fed targeting OBFR would be as if it targeted Libor today. What this means 
for the Fed’s reaction function isn’t clear, but our instinct tells us that we will deal 
with a Fed inherently more sensitive to global financial conditions, inherently 
more sensitive to global growth and inherently more dovish than in the past…
Research Analysts
Zoltan Pozsar
212 538 3779
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com
13 April 2016
Economic Research
 
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 2
Contrary to conventional wisdom, there are no excess reserves – not one penny.
Labelling the trillions of reserves created as a byproduct of QE as “excess” was 
appropriate only until the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)1 went live, but not after.
Before the LCR, excess reserves were indeed excess: every penny was in excess of the 
amount of reserves required by the Federal Reserve’s Regulation D. Under the LCR,              
all excess reserves became required: not to comply with Regulation D, but with the LCR.
It is helpful to think about the LCR as a global reserve requirement regime.
Before the LCR, banks were required to hold reserves only against demand deposits 
issued in the U.S. (i.e., reserves were required only against onshore overnight liabilities). 
As banks went about their usual business of making loans and creating deposits, they 
routinely fell short of reserve requirements. To top up their reserve balances, banks with a 
shortfall of reserves (typically the big money center banks) borrowed fed funds from banks 
with a surplus of reserves (typically the small regional banks).
These transactions comprised the fed funds market.
Under the LCR, banks are required to hold reserves (and more broadly, high-quality liquid 
assets or HQLA) not only against overnight deposits, but all short-term liabilities that 
mature in less than 30 days, regardless of whether those liabilities were issued by a bank 
subsidiary, a broker-dealer subsidiary or a holding company onshore or offshore (i.e. 
reserves are required not only against onshore overnight bank liabilities but any short-term 
liability issued by any legal entity under the hood of a bank holding company globally).
Take note of the global scope of the LCR and consider that the genesis of the Eurodollar 
market was that banks did not have to hold reserves against deposits issued offshore. 
Under the LCR this loophole is gone. From a liquidity requirement perspective, onshore 
and offshore dollar deposits are treated the same, and as an important corollary, the Fed’s 
dollar swap network makes onshore and offshore deposits practically the same.
The LCR thus represents a structural leap in the demand for reserves not only by U.S. 
banks but also by all foreign banks that are active in Eurodollar markets. All this in turn will 
underwrite the need for a big Fed balance sheet for a long time to come.
The LCR has implications for the future of fed funds market, the Fed's reaction function 
and the Fed's balance sheet. This issue of Global Money Notes discusses each in turn. 
Part one provides a detailed look at the present and future of the fed funds market to 
explain why the Fed has no choice but to scrap the fed funds rate as its policy target.
Part two explains what switching from the fed funds rate to the overnight bank funding rate 
(OBFR) would mean for the Fed’s reaction function and how the Fed now has two parallel 
corridor systems: one onshore for banks and one offshore for the shadow banking system.
Part three explains why the LCR coupled with regulators’ preference for reserves to play a 
more prominent role in liquidity portfolios means that the term excess reserves is a 
misnomer and why there is only limited room for the Fed to shrink its balance sheet.
Finally, part four concludes with the notion that quantities matter again but in ways the Fed 
has yet to appreciate and different from the way they mattered under Paul Volcker’s reign. 
Back then the issue was too much private money creation too willingly accommodated by 
the Fed until Chairman Volcker came along. Now, the issue is constrained private money 
creation and a Fed unwilling to fill the vacuum and focused solely on prices, not quantities.
Focusing on prices only is possible if balance sheets are completely elastic. In the new 
financial world order they are almost completely inelastic. Something will have to give…
1 For an explanation of technical terms please refer to the glossary on page 14.
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 3
Part I - LCR and the Fed Funds Market
One unintended consequence of the LCR is that the federal funds market will slowly fade 
into irrelevance.
The fed funds (FF) market is a shadow of its former self, down from $250 billion in 2007 to 
about $60 billion today. All of this decline came from the near-total collapse of bank-to-
bank FF trades. What is left of the FF market reflects transactions between the Federal 
Home Loan Banks (FHLBs) as lenders and a dozen or so foreign banks as borrowers.
Banks no longer trade in the FF market for at least three reasons.
First, banks have no incentive to borrow reserves as they already hold amounts in excess 
of what is needed to comply with reserve requirements. With so many reserves, the days 
of money center banks falling behind reserve requirements are over, possibly forever.
Second, banks have no incentive to lend reserves either. This is because only reserves 
held at the Fed are HQLA but when reserves are lent in the FF market and become fed 
funds sold, the lending bank ends up with less HQLA and worsens its LCR. 
Third, in general the LCR disicentivizes banks from lending to other banks on an 
unsecured basis (the FF market is unsecured) and rather incentivizes them to lend on a 
secured basis via repos (versus Treasury collateral) or to keep cash at the central bank.
In plain English this means that the widely-held view that the trillions of “excess” reserves 
sloshing around in the financial system are depressing the FF rate to trade below IOER 
and are causing the Fed difficulties to control short-term interest rates is simply incorrect.  
Excess reserves are not sloshing but rather sitting at the Fed. They sit passive and inert 
because banks must hold these reserves as HQLA to meet LCR requirements. You have 
to fund what you hold and since HQLA cannot be encumbered, you can only fund them 
unsecured. And banks always attempt to fund assets with positive carry. 
Therefore it is not surprising that unsecured bank funding rates up to the one month (the 
point within which banks must hold HQLA against liabilities) all trade lower than IOER. 
Structurally, that means operating and non-operating deposits, CDs, CP (both onshore 
and Eurodollar), and the effective FF rate will nearly always yield less than IOER. 
Regulatory parameters will set the spread between IOER and funding rates and 
differences between regulatory regimes will determine where U.S. and foreign banks fund. 
That is all there is to understanding the performance of money markets after liftoff, really 
(see Exhibit 1). Analyses that do not put the LCR front and center lack in perspective.
Of the unsecured markets mentioned above, FF is a special case: it exists in a bubble. It’s 
a $60 billion air pocket in a broader money market complex that’s about $600 billion in size.
There are ten FHLBs and about a dozen non-U.S. banks that trade in this air pocket, and 
at present they appear to be splitting the bounty so to speak. The lending side of the 
market gets 12.5 above the RRP rate and the borrowing side gets 12.5 above the FF rate.
We highlighted the "split" behaviour in a previous issue of Global Money Notes and argued 
that the small size of the market and the small number of participants make the market 
prone to trade in a very stable manner (our analysis of the micro-structure of the market 
was the basis of our call that the FF rate would trade in the middle of the range after liftoff).
Indeed, the FF rate has been trading in the middle of the target range for the past 15 
months in a remarkably stable manner – practically along a straight line (see Exhibit 2).
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 4
Exhibit 1: From Inside to Outside Liquidity Portfolios
MML = money market lending. MMF = money market funding. Reverses = reverse repos with clients (not the Fed).
From endogenous liquidity…. MML MMF(private) (private)
…to exogenous liquidity… HQLA MMF(public) (private)
…reversed in or held outright… Reserves MMFReverses (private)T - Notes
…and funded mostly unsecured. Reserves UnsecuredReversesT - Notes
Assets Liabilities
Assets Liabilities
Assets Liabilities
Assets Liabilities
Source: Credit Suisse
Is that stability a virtue or a vice? To answer that question, consider Exhibit 3.
You see two lines that for a while trade identically.
Now consider that the thin blue line plots the path of the effective FF rate and the thick 
orange line plots the path of the RMB/USD exchange rate from March to October in 2015.
Both trade along a straight line and then there is a jump: the PBoC devalues in August and 
the Fed hikes interest rates in December. Then, trading along a straight line continues.
But now, think about the fact that the reason USD/RMB trades along a straight line is 
because the PBoC is enforcing that price by putting its big balance sheet behind it.
But the Fed is not an active participant in the FF market: it only sets the range but does 
not enforce how FF trades within that range.
What that means is that the FF market is a market that enforces itself to trade along a 
straight line. But should a venue that trades that way still be considered a market?
Official control versus self-control? 
Part II - LCR and the Fed’s Reaction Function
Liberty Street, we have a problem.
The FF market has gone from a big pond where FHLBs were small fish to a small pond 
where FHLBs became one big fish, providing a stable source of funding for risk-free 
arbitrage at the New York branches of a handful of foreign banks (see Exhibits 4, 5 and 6).
It is a problem when the Fed’s policy target (probably the most important price in the world 
for interest rate derivatives) is set in a market as small ($60 billion), as sparsely populated 
(10 lenders and a dozen borrowers), and as easy to influence as the FF market today.
Nothing in our narrative suggests anything metapysical about how FF trades in that IOER 
works like a magnet pulling money market rates closer together nor the urban legend that 
the large capacity of the o/n RRP facility “could actually reduce o/n RRP takeup”.
What we see is a small market where participants seem to have come to an agreement 
about how the market should trade.
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 5
Exhibit 2: Snake in the Tunnel
%
00.10.20.30.40.50.6
15 16Effective FF (ex month-ends)Effective FF (average)o/n RRPIOER
Source: Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse
Exhibit 3: Official Control versus “Self” Control
% (left axis) and RMB/USD (right axis)
6.106.156.206.256.306.356.406.456.50
0.000.050.100.150.200.250.300.350.400.450.50
15 16Effective FF (ex month-ends; actual dates, %, left axis)RMB/USD (March, 2015 to October, 2015; right axis)
Source: Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 6
Exhibit 4: Big Fish in a Small Pond
$ billions
01020304050607080
November 2, 2015December 2, 2015January 2, 2016February 2, 2016Fed Funds Purchased (by banks, total)Fed Funds Sold (by GSEs)Fed Funds Sold (by banks)
Source: FRBNY, Credit Suisse
Exhibit 5: Who Determine the Fixing on Trillions of Derivatives? 
$ billions as of 2015Q4
0510152025
Total by name
MEGA INTL CMRL BK CO NY BRBANK OF NOVA SCOTIA NY AGYDNB BK ASA NY BRBAYERISCHE LANDESBANK NY BRSWEDBANK AB NY BRBNP PARIBAS EQUITABLE TOWER BRMIZUHO BK NEW YORK BRINTESA SANPAOLO SPA NY BRINDUSTRIAL & CB OF CHINA NY BRBANCO SANTANDER SA NY BRBANK TOK-MIT UFJ NY BRCHANG HWA CMRL BK NYNORDDEUTSCHE LANDESBANK NY BRCHIBA BK NY BRLAND BK OF TAIWAN NY BRUNITED OVERSEAS BK NY AGYBANK OF CMNTNS NY BRBANK OF INDIA NY BR
Source: FFIEC, Credit Suisse
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 7
Exhibit 6: The FHLBs’ Unsecured Exposure by Credit Risk and Country
$ millions as of 2015Q4
Source: Office of Finance, Credit Suisse
Moreover, the o/n RRP facility seems irrelevant in determining where FF trades.
This is because early return of cash is paramount, FHLBs will never invest in a facility that 
gives their cash back late in the day. The FHLBs would prefer keeping cash in their 
Fedwire accounts earning zero to locking it up for an entire day in o/n RRPs for a yield. 
We think the Fed will soon have to begin a conversation with market participants about the 
problems of the FF market, the fading relevance of the FF rate as a reliable measure of 
banks’ funding costs and the need to switch to another, more meaningful policy target.
The overnight bank funding rate (OBFR) is the obvious candidate and we think the 
switchover will happen before year-end.
We know that the OBFR is a volume weighted median of where global banks fund 
themselves in o/n FF and Eurodollar transactions and that it gets around the small volume 
and the small number of participants in the FF market. The volume of o/n Eurodollar 
transactions is near $250 billion and there are hundreds of market participants.
Switching over to the OBFR is not without questions, however. Three come to mind in 
particular, regarding design, concept and implications for the Fed's reaction function.
First, regarding design, we looked but could not find any hints as to whether the Fed 
surveys the rates on both operating and non-operating deposits to calculate OBFR.
The detail is crucial since the U.S. experience shows that banks value and price the two 
deposits differently. As European banks (the largest participants in Eurodollar market) 
ramp up their compliance with Basel III and reprice their deposits, the generally lower 
rates offered on non-operating deposits could cause Eurodollar rates to drift away from the 
FF rate over time. We do not see any signs of this yet (the two rates trade on top of each 
other at present), but without knowing the precise types of deposits the OBFR is designed 
to track, we cannot exclude this scenario. This is important to keep in mind especially if 
OBFR ends up replacing the effective FF rate in the pricing of swaps and futures contracts.
Second, regarding concept, switching from FF to OBFR is a big deal in the sense that the 
FF market is an interbank market, whereas OBFR is a customer-to-bank market.
Operationally targeting a customer-to-bank rate is very different from targeting an 
interbank rate. We are actually unaware of any central bank that is influencing customer-
to-bank rates through open market operations (OMO). Does OBFR point to a system 
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 8
where OMOs are obsolete and where administered target ranges are the norm? Where  
the Fed stands ready to make markets at the upper and lower bounds of the range? And 
where benchmark rates are set by surveyed customer-to-bank and not interbank trades?
Third, regarding the reaction function, imagine the Fed targeted Libor as its policy rate.
Targeting the OBFR would essentially be the same, to the extent that both Libor and 
OBFR are meant to measure where banks fund in the Eurodollar market. Conceptually this 
means that the Fed would target global as opposed to domestic dollar funding conditions 
only: a central bank that targets the range where global dollar funding rates should trade.
With the standing FX swap network (see Mehrling, 2015) with the BoC, the BoE, the BoJ 
the ECB and the SNB, the Fed already made one big leap toward becoming the de-facto 
central bank of the world by being ready to broadcast global dollar liquidity at OIS + 50 bps.
Switching over to OBFR would represent a second major leap. But in this case, not as 
dealer of last resort in the cross-currency basis market, but rather as a central bank that 
aims to target the price of dollar funding not only onshore but also globally (see Exhibit 7).
Exhibit 7: The New World Order
%
0.000.250.500.751.001.25
15 16IOER [deposit rate for banks] Discount Rate (lending rate for banks)o/n RRP [deposit rate for shadow banks (onshore)]Swap Lines [lending rate for shadow banks (offshore)]OBFR
Onshore corridor (for banks)Global corridor (for shadow banks)
onshore lendingrateoffshore lendingrate
onshore depositrateonshore depositrate
Source: Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse
We have not one corridor, but two parallel corridors. The corridor everyone talks about is 
the o/n RRP-IOER range. The corridors everyone should be talking about are the Fed’s 
onshore corridor for traditional banks and a global corridor for the shadow banking system.
The solid red line (IOER) shows where banks can deposit cash at the Fed onshore and 
the dashed red line shows where banks can borrow from the Fed onshore (through the 
standing discount window facility). This is the onshore corridor for traditional banks.
The solid blue line (o/n RRP) shows where shadow banks (dealers and money funds) can 
deposit cash at the Fed onshore and the dashed blue line shows where shadow banks 
(non-U.S. banks active in Eurodollar markets) can borrow from the Fed offshore (indirectly 
through their home central banks’ standing FX swap lines with the Fed). 
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 9
This is the global corridor for the shadow banking system. 
In normal times, the OBFR (a measure of onshore and offshore funding costs) trades 
between the onshore deposit legs of the two parallel corridors (the o/n RRP-IOER range).
And unlike in 2007, when Libor shot 50+ bps above the fed funds rate, OBFR generally 
should never gap north of the rate on dollar swap lines – the offshore discount window rate.
What all this means in light of the Fed’s domestic mandates on jobs and inflation is an 
open question, but our instinct tells us that all this points to a Fed that is inherently more 
sensitive to global financial conditions beyond the trade weighted value of the dollar; 
inherently more sensitive to the global growth outlook; and hence inherently more dovish.
The more plates you juggle, the more careful you will have to be.
Just think about it: if the design of your parallel corridor system pre-commits you to step in 
as dealer of last resort in Eurodollar markets you will be extra careful in how much you 
tighten dollar funding conditions globally. Tighten too much and the first port of call won’t 
be the IMF like in the past, but your standing dollar swap lines with other central banks.
We think that switching from FF to OBFR will be a necessity, not a choice.
Unsecured interbank markets and the fed funds rate as a policy target are set to fade into 
irrelevance post-Basel III. OBFR is the alternative and switchover is bound to happen 
sooner rather than later. Therefore starting to think about these question now is paramount.
Part III - LCR and the Fed’s Balance Sheet
The idea that there are no excess reserves stems from the fact that new regulatory rules 
underwrite demand for a big Fed balance sheet for a long time to come (possibly forever).
The Fed is currently considering imposing rules to require banks to hold a certain 
minimum target portion of their HQLA portfolios in reserves. This further underscores this 
point. As we have highlighted in earlier work (see here), the LCR is subject to considerable 
interpretation when it comes to how banks can build their HQLA portfolios: the outflow 
assumption on liabilities and eligible assets are uniform, but there is no guidance on the 
target duration of a portfolio or the mix between reserves and bonds among Level 1 assets.
Banks have taken very different approaches in building these portfolios: some banks have 
mostly reserves (JP Morgan), some mostly Treasuries (Citi) and some mostly mortgages 
(Bank of America) in their HQLA portfolio (see Exhibit 8; note that the issue we raise here 
pertains to the Level 1 portion of HQLA portfolios which is entirely separate from some 
large banks’ Level 2 allocation issues which we discussed here).
The Basel III Monitoring Report of the BIS is a helpful benchmark in terms of what the Fed 
may potentially chose as a target, and that is about 85% Level 1 assets (made up of a 
minimum of 35% reserves and 50% Treasuries) and a maximum of 15% Level 2 assets.
If history is any guide the Fed will likely choose something tougher than this
Under the leadership of Governor Tarullo the Fed chose to implement regulatory reforms a 
touch tougher and a touch faster than the Basel III baseline, and will likely chose HQLA 
portfolio mix targets that are a touch tougher than the findings of the BIS report.
Any question about when or whether the Fed will finally start to shrink its bloated balance 
sheet then ultimately comes down to this: do you think the Fed's regulatory arm would be 
comfortable with a banking system that has a greater share of bonds in its HQLA portfolio?
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 10
Exhibit 8: Are Banks Due for Uniform Liquidity Diets?
Bank operating subsidiaries only, % as of 2015Q4
17%21%6%25%37%23%15%
73%59%56%55%25%18%36%
0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%
JPMBNYSSTWFBoACitiGlobal benchmarkMBS (F) - Level 2 HQLA (at liquidity value, i.e. with a 15% haircut)MBS (G)U.S. TreasuriesReserves
Min?
Max?
Source: FFIEC, Credit Suisse
Likely not.
In an important speech, former BoE Governor Mervyn King noted the steady erosion of 
U.K. banks’ reserve buffers from about 30% of assets in the 1960s to practically nothing 
by the eve of the crisis. In this sense the odd thing is not that the size of the Fed’s (and 
other central banks’) balance sheet rose five-fold since the crisis, but that it did not during 
the decades prior to the crisis and that regulators let banks shrink their official reserve 
buffers to nothing relative to the ballooning size of wholesale repo and Eurodollar markets.
Had the Fed forced banks to hold an additional say $50 billion in extra reserves year after 
year as wholesale funding markets expanded after President Nixon took the U.S. dollar off 
the gold standard in 1971, the size of its balance sheet would be roughly where it is today.
Big is not odd; small was odd (see Exhibit 9).
Don't get your hopes up about going back to an all-bonds liquidity portfolio.
With Basel III throwing sand upon sand into the functioning of matched repo books (the 
hearts whose beats gave market liquidity a pulse), bond market liquidity will never be what 
it once was. Regulators know this. After all they were the ones who designed the new 
system and put in place the constraints on repo and market liquidity that come with it. 
They do realize that in the post Basel-III world order base liquidity (central bank reserves) 
will inevitably have to replace market-based liquidity.
With this in mind, does the Fed shrinking its balance sheet by taking reserves out of the 
banking system and replacing them with U.S. Treasuries and MBS still sound probable? 
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 11
Exhibit 9: Big Is Not Odd…
$ trillions
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
5055606570758085909500051015Reserves (actual)Reserves (had the Fed had a robust liquidity regime in place for banks since the 1970s)Is this odd?
Source: Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse
Instead of asking when the Fed will shrink its balance sheet, it’s about time the market 
gets used to the idea that we are witnessing a structural shift in the amount of reserves the 
U.S. banks will be required to hold, where reserves replace bonds as the primary source 
of banks’ liquidity. And that this shift will underwrite demand for a large Fed balance sheet.
And we are also witnessing a structural shift in the amount of reserves held by foreign 
banks as well. Gone are the days when foreign banks settled their Eurodollar transactions 
with deposits held at correspondent money center banks in New York. Under the new 
rules, interbank deposits do not count as HQLA, and foreign banks are increasingly 
settling Eurodollar transactions with reserve balances at the Fed. Foreign banks’ demand 
for reserves as HQLA to back Eurodollar deposits and as ultimate means of settlement for 
Eurodollar transactions will underwrite the need for a large Fed balance sheet as well.
Prime money fund reform is a very important yet grossly under-appreciated aspect of this, 
one with geo-strategic relevance for the United States. 
Prime money funds have been providing the overwhelming portion of funding for foreign 
banks’ reserve balances. If the prime money fund complex shrinks dramatically after the 
October 14th reform deadline, funding these reserve balancees will become structurally 
more expensive. This in turn means that for foreign banks across the globe running 
Eurodollar businesses – lending Eurodollars and taking Eurodollar deposits – will become 
structurally more expensive. Why? Because if the LCR requires banks to hold more 
reserves as the preferred medium for settling Eurodollar transactions and the funding of 
these balances become more expensive, funding the liquidity portfolio corresponding to 
Eurodollar books may become a negative carry trade. Will that help diminish the dollar’s 
pre-eminence as the global reserve currency and play into China’s hand? You bet…
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 12
Conclusion - Quantities Matter Again
Of course the bulk of banks’ demand for HQLA is driven by non-operating deposits. If 
banks push these deposits out, or if they choose to leave the banking system voluntarily in 
search of money market instruments elsewhere, the need for reserves would be lower.
That is true.
Keep in mind, however, that with the private sector's ability to issue money market claims 
sharply limited by Basel III, money can only find a home on the sovereign's balance sheet: 
either through the Treasury bill market or through the Fed's o/n RRP facility.
Either option will mean that demand for a large Fed balance sheet will remain: reserves 
will not be eliminated, but swapped into other liabilities – larger cash balances for the U.S. 
Treasury (and on the flipside more bills for institutional cash pools) and more o/n RRPs for 
money funds (and on the flipside safer money funds for institutional cash pools).
Oddly, however, the Fed keeps emphasizing that the o/n RRP is not there for the long haul 
or to meet money funds’ demand for safe assets, but to put a floor under interest rates.
We disagree. Quantities matter again, in ways the Fed has yet to appreciate.
Quantities matter for HQLA reasons: we now have what is effectively a global reserve 
requirement regime which requires banks to hold more reserves than in the past. There is 
no turning back to the old days where reserves were scarce. The LCR does not allow that.
Quantities matter for balance sheet reasons as well: private balance sheets are smaller 
and less flexible, limiting the amount of short-term wholesale liabilities (and chiefly the size 
of dealers’ matched repo books, or private money) that financial institutions can issue.
Quantities matter for money demand reasons too: with institutional money demand up –  
not down – since the crisis (partly due to initial margins at CCPs), if the private sector can't 
issue shadow money claims someone else will have to, otherwise rates go down, not up.
In this sense, debates about whether the RRP facility should be temporary or permanent; 
whether it should be allowed to grow into a structural source of supply for safe assets; or 
how deep the Fed should or should not get in bed with money funds are just a sideshow.
The real question is:
How big will the o/n RRP facility have to get for it to serve as a hard floor for the short-term 
rates complex (in the absence of alternatives such as the ones we discussed here).
Safe assets are needed to store pools of wealth and to grease financial economy 
transactions (see Pozsar, 2014). If their provision were inelastic or only reluctantly elastic, 
the Fed would be unable to control short-term rates. The Fed has yet to learn that lesson.
Either way, after taking into account households’ demand for cold hard cash, the                     
U.S. Treasury’s decision to structurally boost its cash balances (from practically nothing to 
$300 billion today and possibly as high as $500 billion in the future), and the structural 
leap in U.S. and foreign banks’ demand for base liquidity (reserves) under the global LCR 
regime, we see very little room for the Fed to ever shrink its balance sheet (see Exhibit 10).
Currency outstanding, U.S. Treasury’s structural cash balances and demand for reserves 
under the LCR regime lock in the size of the Fed’s balance sheet at around $3.5 trillion 
and as discussed in the maiden issue of Global Money Notes, the remaining $1 trillion will 
be needed as reverse repos for money funds and foreign central banks to offset the 
(forced) shrinkage in dealer matched books and the corresponding decline in safe assets.
Big ain’t inflationary. Big is necessary. It is the future. Get over it…
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 13
Exhibit 10: How I Stopped Worrying and Love the Fed’s Big Balance Sheet
$ trillions
0.81 1.44 1.780.28 0.502.41 1.250.39 0.99
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.54.04.55.0
The Past The Present The Future13-Jun-07 30-Mar-16 2020Households (currency)U.S. Treasury (reserves)Banks (reserves = HQLA for LCR)Shadow Banks and Cash Pools (o/n RRPs and other)
Source: Federal Reserve, Credit Suisse
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 14
Glossary
Basel III is the most significant reform to hit the banking system in a generation. It 
represents an entitlement reform for the banking system: as an analogy think of retirement 
ages being raised from 60 to 80. It has four cornerstones: risk-based capital requirements; 
the (supplementary) leverage ratio (SLR); the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) and finally the 
net stable funding ratio (NSFR). It applies to the largest banks in the G20 economies.
HQLA is a term itroduced as a part of bank liquidity requirements under Basel III. It stands 
for High-Quality Liquid Assets. HQLA fall into two broad categories: Level 1 and Level 2. 
Level 1 HQLA include reserves, U.S. Treasuries and Ginnie Mae MBS. Level 1 assets can 
be held in unlimited amounts and at no haircut. Level 2 HQLA include Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac MBS. Level 2 assets can only make up 40% of an HQLA portfolio and must 
be included at a haircut of 15%. Level 2 assets also include corporate and municipal 
bonds and also some equities. However banks don’t hold large amounts of them as HQLA.
LCR stands for the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, a cornerstone of Basel III. The LCR requires 
banks to take stock of their short-term liabilities, assign pre-set outflow assumptions to 
them and hold an amount of HQLA against them equal to their outflow assumptions. The 
minimum LCR U.S. banks must have is 100% but are encouraged by the Fed to target an 
LCR of about 115% (with the 15% extra being banks margin of safety). Since July 1st of 
2015 the largest U.S. banks have been subject to daily LCR compliance requirements.
For more on the LCR see Section II (“Rules”) of Global Money Notes #3.
Non-operating deposits are a concept introduced as a part of LCR. They refer to 
deposits that are in excess of an institutional depositors typical outflow needs. Depending 
on the type of institution the outflow assumption associated with non-operating deposits 
are 40% at the minimum and can be as high as 100%. The higher the outflow assumption 
the lower the attractiveness of the deposit as a source of funding for a bank. This is 
because high HQLA requirement deposits leave no freedom for a bank to decide how to 
invest on its asset side: these deposits can only be held as low-yielding cash at the Fed.
For more on non-operating deposits see Section II (“Rules”) of Global Money Notes #3.
13 April 2016
Global Money Notes #5 15
References:
 
Pozsar, Zoltan, “The Rise and Fall of the Shadow Banking System,” Moody’s 
Economy.com (July, 2008)
Wilmot, Jonathan, Sweeney, James, Klein, Matthias and Lantz, Carl, “Long Shadows,” 
Credit Suisse (May, 2009)
Pozsar, Zoltan, Adrian, Tobias, Ashcraft Adam and Boesky, Hayley, “Shadow Banking,” 
FRBNY (July, 2010) 
Pozsar, Zoltan “Institutional Cash Pools and the Triffin Dilemma of the US Banking 
System,” IMF (August, 2011)
Sweeney, James and Wilmot, Jonathan, “When Collateral Is King,” Credit Suisse (March, 
2012)
 
Mehrling, Perry, Pozsar, Zoltan, Sweeney, James and Neilson, Dan “Bagehot Was a 
Shadow Banker,” INET (November, 2013)
Sweeney, James, “Liquidity Required: Reshaping the Financial System,” Credit Suisse 
(November, 2013)
Pozsar, Zoltan, “Shadow Banking: The Money View”, US Treasury (July, 2014)
Pozsar, Zoltan, “How the Financial System Works: An Atlas of Money Flows in the Global 
Financial Ecosystem,” US Treasury (July, 2014)
Pozsar, Zoltan, “A Macro View of Shadow Banking,” INET Working Paper (January, 2015)
Di Iasio, Giovanni, and Pozsar, Zoltan, “A Model of Shadow Banking: Crises, Central 
Banks and Regulation” Banca d’Italia (May, 2015)
Pozsar, Zoltan and Sweeney, James, “Global Money Notes #1: The Money Market Under 
Government Control,” Credit Suisse (May, 2015)
Pozsar, Zoltan and Sweeney, James, “Global Money Notes #2: A Turbulent Exit,” Credit 
Suisse (August, 2015)
Pozsar, Zoltan and Sweeney, James, “Global Money Notes #3: Flying Blind,” Credit 
Suisse (December, 2015)
Pozsar, Zoltan, “Global Money Notes #4: A Tool of Their Own – The Foreign RRP 
Facility,” Credit Suisse (February, 2015)

GLOBAL FIXED INCOME AND ECONOMIC RESEARCH
Ric Deverell
Global Head of Fixed Income and Economic Research
+1 212 538 8964
ric.deverell@credit-suisse.com
GLOBAL ECONOMICS AND STRATEGY
James Sweeney, Chief Economist
Co-Head of Global Economics and Strategy
+1 212 538 4648
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com
Neville Hill
Co-Head of Global Economics and Strategy
+44 20 7888 1334
neville.hill@credit-suisse.com
GLOBAL STRATEGY AND ECONOMICS
Axel Lang
+1 212 538 4530
axel.lang@credit-suisse.com
Jeremy Schwartz
+1 212 538 6419 
jeremy.schwartz@credit-suisse.com
Sarah Smith
+1 212 325-1022
sarah.smith@credit-suisse.com
Wenzhe Zhao
+1 212 325 1798 
wenzhe.zhao@credit-suisse.com
US ECONOMICS
James Sweeney
Head of US Economics
+1 212 538 4648
james.sweeney@credit-suisse.com
Xiao Cui
+1 212 538 2511
xiao.cui@credit-suisse.com
Zoltan Pozsar
+1 212 538 3779 
zoltan.pozsar@credit-suisse.com
Dana Saporta
+1 212 538 3163
dana.saporta@credit-suisse.com
LATIN AMERICA (LATAM) ECONOMICS
Alonso Cervera
Head of Latam Economics
+52 55 5283 3845
alonso.cervera@credit-suisse.com
Mexico, Chile
Casey Reckman
+1 212 325 5570
casey.reckman@credit-suisse.com
Argentina, Venezuela
Daniel Chodos
+1 212 325 7708
daniel.chodos@credit-suisse.com 
Latam Strategy
Juan Lorenzo Maldonado
+1 212 325 4245
juanlorenzo.maldonado@credit-suisse.com 
Colombia, Ecuador, Peru
Alberto J. Rojas
+52 55 5283 8975
alberto.rojas@credit-suisse.com
BRAZIL ECONOMICS
Nilson Teixeira
Head of Brazil Economics
+55 11 3701 6288
nilson.teixeira@credit-suisse.com
Iana Ferrao
+55 11 3701 6345
iana.ferrao@credit-suisse.com
Leonardo Fonseca
+55 11 3701 6348
leonardo.fonseca@credit-suisse.com
Paulo Coutinho
+55 11 3701-6353
paulo.coutinho@credit-suisse.com
EUROPEAN ECONOMICS
Neville Hill
Head of European Economics
+44 20 7888 1334
neville.hill@credit-suisse.com
Giovanni Zanni
+44 20 7888 6827
giovanni.zanni@credit-suisse.com
Sonali Punhani
+44 20 7883 4297
sonali.punhani@credit-suisse.com
Peter Foley
+44 20 7883 4349
peter.foley@credit-suisse.com
EASTERN EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA (EEMEA) ECONOMICS
Berna Bayazitoglu
Head of EEMEA Economics
+44 20 7883 3431
berna.bayazitoglu@credit-suisse.com
Turkey
Nimrod Mevorach
+44 20 7888 1257
nimrod.mevorach@credit-suisse.com
EEMEA Strategy, Israel
Alexey Pogorelov
+44 20 7883 0396
alexey.pogorelov@credit-suisse.com
Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan
Mikhail Liluashvili
+44 20 7888 7342
mikhail.liluashvili@credit-suisse.com
Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic
Carlos Teixeira
+27 11 012 8054
carlos.teixeira@credit-suisse.com
South Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa
Chernay Johnson
+27 11 012 8068
chernay.johnson @credit-suisse.com
Nigeria, Sub-Saharan Africa
JAPAN ECONOMICS NON-JAPAN ASIA (NJA) ECONOMICS
Dong Tao
Head of NJA Economics
+852 2101 7469
dong.tao@credit-suisse.com 
China
Dr. Santitarn Sathirathai
+65 6212 5675
santitarn.sathirathai@credit-suisse.com 
Regional, India, Indonesia, Thailand
Christiaan Tuntono
+852 2101 7409
christiaan.tuntono@credit-suisse.com 
Hong Kong, Korea, Taiwan
Hiromichi Shirakawa
Head of Japan Economics
+81 3 4550 7117
hiromichi.shirakawa@credit-suisse.com
Takashi Shiono
+81 3 4550 7189
takashi.shiono@credit-suisse.com
Deepali Bhargava
+65 6212 5699
deepali.bhargava@credit-suisse.com 
India
Michael Wan
+65 6212 3418
michael.wan@credit-suisse.com 
Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines
Weishen Deng
+852 2101 7162
weishen.deng@credit-suisse.com
China
Disclosure Appendix
Analyst Certification 
The analysts identified in this report each certify, with respect to the companies or securities that the individual analyzes, that (1) the views expressed in this report accurately reflect his or her personal views 
about all of the subject companies and securities and (2) no part of his or her compensation was, is or will be directly or indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this report. 
References in this report to Credit Suisse include all of the subsidiaries and affiliates of Credit Suisse operating under its investment banking division. For more information on our structure, please use the following link: 
https://www.credit-suisse.com/who-we-areThis report may contain material that is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, 
country or other jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation or which would subject Credit Suisse AG or its affiliates ("CS") to any registration or licensing 
requirement within such jurisdiction. All material presented in this report, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under copyright to CS. None of the material, nor its content, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, 
transmitted to, copied or distributed to any other party, without the prior express written permission of CS. All trademarks, service marks and logos used in this report are trademarks or service marks or registered trademarks 
or service marks of CS or its affiliates. The information, tools and material presented in this report are provided to you for information purposes only and are not to be used or considered as an offer or the solicitation of an 
offer to sell or to buy or subscribe for securities or other financial instruments. CS may not have taken any steps to ensure that the securities referred to in this report are suitable for any particular investor. CS will not treat 
recipients of this report as its customers by virtue of their receiving this report. The investments and services contained or referred to in this report may not be suitable for you and it is recommended that you consult an 
independent investment advisor if you are in doubt about such investments or investment services. Nothing in this report constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a representation that any investment or 
strategy is suitable or appropriate to your individual circumstances, or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation to you. CS does not advise on the tax consequences of investments and you are advised to contact 
an independent tax adviser. Please note in particular that the bases and levels of taxation may change. Information and opinions presented in this report have been obtained or derived from sources believed by CS to be 
reliable, but CS makes no representation as to their accuracy or completeness. CS accepts no liability for loss arising from the use of the material presented in this report, except that this exclusion of liability does not apply to 
the extent that such liability arises under specific statutes or regulations applicable to CS. This report is not to be relied upon in substitution for the exercise of independent judgment. CS may have issued, and may in the 
future issue, other communications that are inconsistent with, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in this report. Those communications reflect the different assumptions, views and analytical 
methods of the analysts who prepared them and CS is under no obligation to ensure that such other communications are brought to the attention of any recipient of this report. Some investments referred to in this report will 
be offered solely by a single entity and in the case of some investments solely by CS, or an associate of CS or CS may be the only market maker in such investments. Past performance should not be taken as an indication 
or guarantee of future performance, and no representation or warranty, express or implied, is made regarding future performance. Information, opinions and estimates contained in this report reflect a judgment at its original 
date of publication by CS and are subject to change without notice. The price, value of and income from any of the securities or financial instruments mentioned in this report can fall as well as rise. The value of securities and 
financial instruments is subject to exchange rate fluctuation that may have a positive or adverse effect on the price or income of such securities or financial instruments. Investors in securities such as ADR's, the values of 
which are influenced by currency volatility, effectively assume this risk. Structured securities are complex instruments, typically involve a high degree of risk and are intended for sale only to sophisticated investors who are 
capable of understanding and assuming the risks involved. The market value of any structured security may be affected by changes in economic, financial and political factors (including, but not limited to, spot and forward 
interest and exchange rates), time to maturity, market conditions and volatility, and the credit quality of any issuer or reference issuer. Any investor interested in purchasing a structured product should conduct their own 
investigation and analysis of the product and consult with their own professional advisers as to the risks involved in making such a purchase. Some investments discussed in this report may have a high level of volatility. High 
volatility investments may experience sudden and large falls in their value causing losses when that investment is realised. Those losses may equal your original investment. Indeed, in the case of some investments the 
potential losses may exceed the amount of initial investment and, in such circumstances, you may be required to pay more money to support those losses. Income yields from investments may fluctuate and, in 
consequence, initial capital paid to make the investment may be used as part of that income yield. Some investments may not be readily realisable and it may be difficult to sell or realise those investments, similarly it may 
prove difficult for you to obtain reliable information about the value, or risks, to which such an investment is exposed. This report may provide the addresses of, or contain hyperlinks to, websites. Except to the extent to which 
the report refers to website material of CS, CS has not reviewed any such site and takes no responsibility for the content contained therein. Such address or hyperlink (including addresses or hyperlinks to CS's own website 
material) is provided solely for your convenience and information and the content of any such website does not in any way form part of this document. Accessing such website or following such link through this report or CS's 
website shall be at your own risk. This report is issued and distributed in Europe (except Switzerland) by Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, One Cabot Square, London E14 4QJ, England, which is authorised by the 
Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. This report is issued and distributed in Europe (except Switzerland) by Credit Suisse International, 
One Cabot Square, London E14 4QJ, England, which is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. This report is being 
distributed in Germany by Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited Niederlassung Frankfurt am Main regulated by the Bundesanstalt fuer Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht ("BaFin"). This report is being distributed in the 
United States and Canada by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC; in Switzerland by Credit Suisse AG; in Brazil by Banco de Investimentos Credit Suisse (Brasil) S.A or its affiliates; in Mexico by Banco Credit Suisse 
(México), S.A. (transactions related to the securities mentioned in this report will only be effected in compliance with applicable regulation); in Japan by Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Limited, Financial Instruments Firm, 
Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Kinsho) No. 66, a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Financial Futures Association of Japan, Japan Investment Advisers Association, Type II Financial 
Instruments Firms Association; elsewhere in Asia/ Pacific by whichever of the following is the appropriately authorised entity in the relevant jurisdiction: Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited, Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) 
Limited, Credit Suisse Securities (Thailand) Limited, regulated by the Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Thailand, having registered address at 990 Abdulrahim Place, 27th Floor, Unit 2701, Rama IV Road, 
Silom, Bangrak, Bangkok 10500, Thailand, Tel. +66 2614 6000, Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, Credit Suisse AG, Singapore Branch, Credit Suisse Securities (India) Private Limited (CIN no. 
U67120MH1996PTC104392) regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India as Research Analyst (registration no. INH 000001030) and as Stock Broker (registration no. INB230970637; INF230970637; 
INB010970631; INF010970631), having registered address at 9th Floor, Ceejay House, Dr.A.B. Road, Worli, Mumbai - 18, India, T- +91-22 6777 3777, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, Seoul Branch, Credit 
Suisse AG, Taipei Securities Branch, PT Credit Suisse Securities Indonesia, Credit Suisse Securities (Philippines ) Inc., and elsewhere in the world by the relevant authorised affiliate of the above. Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) 
Limited ("CSHK") is licensed and regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong under the laws of Hong Kong, which differ from Australian laws. CSHKL does not hold an Australian financial services 
licence (AFSL) and is exempt from the requirement to hold an AFSL under the Corporations Act 2001 (the Act) under Class Order 03/1103 published by the ASIC in respect of financial services provided to Australian 
wholesale clients (within the meaning of section 761G of the Act). Research on Taiwanese securities produced by Credit Suisse AG, Taipei Securities Branch has been prepared by a registered Senior Business Person. 
Research provided to residents of Malaysia is authorised by the Head of Research for Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, to whom they should direct any queries on +603 2723 2020. This report has been 
prepared and issued for distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited investors and expert investors (each as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations) only, and is also distributed by Credit Suisse 
AG, Singapore branch to overseas investors (as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations). By virtue of your status as an institutional investor, accredited investor, expert investor or overseas investor, Credit Suisse 
AG, Singapore branch is exempted from complying with certain compliance requirements under the Financial Advisers Act, Chapter 110 of Singapore (the "FAA"), the Financial Advisers Regulations and the relevant 
Notices and Guidelines issued thereunder, in respect of any financial advisory service which Credit Suisse AG, Singapore branch may provide to you. This information is being distributed by Credit Suisse AG (DIFC Branch), 
duly licensed and regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (“DFSA”). Related financial services or products are only made available to Professional Clients or Market Counterparties, as defined by the DFSA, and 
are not intended for any other persons. Credit Suisse AG (DIFC Branch) is located on Level 9 East, The Gate Building, DIFC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. This research may not conform to Canadian disclosure 
requirements. In jurisdictions where CS is not already registered or licensed to trade in securities, transactions will only be effected in accordance with applicable securities legislation, which will vary from jurisdiction to 
jurisdiction and may require that the trade be made in accordance with applicable exemptions from registration or licensing requirements. Non-U.S. customers wishing to effect a transaction should contact a CS entity in their 
local jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise. U.S. customers wishing to effect a transaction should do so only by contacting a representative at Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC in the U.S. Please note that 
this research was originally prepared and issued by CS for distribution to their market professional and institutional investor customers. Recipients who are not market professional or institutional investor customers of CS 
should seek the advice of their independent financial advisor prior to taking any investment decision based on this report or for any necessary explanation of its contents. This research may relate to investments or services 
of a person outside of the UK or to other matters which are not authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority or in respect of 
which the protections of the Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct Authority for private customers and/or the UK compensation scheme may not be available, and further details as to where this may be the 
case are available upon request in respect of this report. CS may provide various services to US municipal entities or obligated persons ("municipalities"), including suggesting individual transactions or trades and entering 
into such transactions. Any services CS provides to municipalities are not viewed as "advice" within the meaning of Section 975 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. CS is providing any such 
services and related information solely on an arm's length basis and not as an advisor or fiduciary to the municipality. In connection with the provision of the any such services, there is no agreement, direct or indirect, 
between any municipality (including the officials, management, employees or agents thereof) and CS for CS to provide advice to the municipality. Municipalities should consult with their financial, accounting and legal 
advisors regarding any such services provided by CS. In addition, CS is not acting for direct or indirect compensation to solicit the municipality on behalf of an unaffiliated broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, municipal 
advisor, or investment adviser for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement by the municipality for or in connection with Municipal Financial Products, the issuance of municipal securities, or of an investment 
adviser to provide investment advisory services to or on behalf of the municipality. If this report is being distributed by a financial institution other than Credit Suisse AG, or its affiliates, that financial institution is solely 
responsible for distribution. Clients of that institution should contact that institution to effect a transaction in the securities mentioned in this report or require further information. This report does not constitute investment advice 
by Credit Suisse to the clients of the distributing financial institution, and neither Credit Suisse AG, its affiliates, and their respective officers, directors and employees accept any liability whatsoever for any direct or 
consequential loss arising from their use of this report or its content. Principal is not guaranteed. Commission is the commission rate or the amount agreed with a customer when setting up an account or at any time after that.
Copyright © 2016 CREDIT SUISSE AG and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 
Investment principal on bonds can be eroded depending on sale price or market price. In addition, there are bonds on which investment principal 
can be eroded due to changes in redemption amounts. Care is required when investing in such instruments. 
When you purchase non-listed Japanese fixed income securities (Japanese government bonds, Japanese municipal bonds, Japanese government guaranteed bonds, Japanese corporate bonds) from CS as a seller, you 
will be requested to pay the purchase price only. 