
=== PAGE 1/62 ===
 This paper presents preliminary findings and is being distributed to economists and other interested readers solely to stimulate discussion and elicit comments. The views expressed in this paper are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the position of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or the Federal Reserve System. Any errors or omissions are the responsibility of the authors. Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Reports Informational Contagion in the Laboratory Marco Cipriani Antonio Guarino Giovanni Guazzarotti Federico Tagliati Sven Fischer Staff Report No. 715 March 2015 
=== PAGE 2/62 ===
Informational Contagion in the Laboratory Marco Cipriani, Antonio Guarino, Giovanni Guazzarotti, Federico Tagliati, and Sven Fischer Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Reports, no. 715 March 2015 JEL classification: C92, G01, G14, G15 Abstract We study the informational channel of financial contagion in the laboratory. In our experiment, two markets with correlated fundamentals open sequentially. In both markets, subjects receive private information. Subjects in the market opening second also observe the history of trades and prices in the first market. We find that although in both markets private information is only imperfectly aggregated, subjects are able to make correct inferences based on the public information coming from the market that opens first. As a result, we observe financial contagion in the laboratory: Indeed, the correlation between asset prices is very close to that predicted by the theory. Finally, as theory predicts, there is no contagion when asset fundamentals are independent: That is, subjects only react to the history of prices and trades in the first market when it is rational to do so because they convey information. Key words: information contagion, laboratory experiment _________________ Cipriani: Federal Reserve Bank of New York (e-mail: marco.cipriani@ny.frb.org). Guarino: University College London (e-mail: a.guarino@ucl.ac.uk). Guazzarotti: Bank of Italy (e-mail: giovanni.guazzarotti@bancaditalia.it). Tagliati: University College London (e-mail: federico.tagliati.10@ucl.ac.uk). Fischer: Max Planck Institute for Research on Collective Goods (e-mail: fischer@coll.mpg.de). Guarino gratefully acknowledges the financial support of the Economic and Social Research Council (World Economy and Finance program), the Economic Research Council, and the Institute for New Economic Thinking. The views expressed in this paper are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the position of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or the Federal Reserve System. 
=== PAGE 3/62 ===
1 Introduction Comovements among asset prices, whether across countries or across asset classes, are often higher than what can be explained by comovements in as- set fundamentals. This empirical regularity, usually referred to as…nancial contagion, has been widely documented in the empirical…nance and interna- tional …nance literatures.1 Indeed, almost all the recent episodes of…nancial turmoil, from the Asian …nancial crisis of 1997 to the events of 2007-2008, suggest that…nancial asset prices are very highly correlated, in excess of what could be expected by looking at fundamentals, and that…nancial instability can quickly spread from one country to the other, or from one asset class to the other. The theoretical asset pricing literature has highlighted several theoretical mechanisms that can generate contagion in…nancial markets. In a seminal paper, King and Wadhwani (1990) argued that…nancial contagion may be explained by informational spillovers across markets. Price changes in a market may be the result of traders reacting to news about an idiosyncratic shock to their market or about a systemic shock. Agents in other markets do not observe whether the shock is idiosyncratic or systemic. They attach some probability to the event that the price movement in the other market is due to a systemic shock, and therefore react to it, even when, in fact, the shock is idiosyncratic. Because of this informational spillover, the correlation among asset prices is higher than that among fundamentals. The theoretical literature on …nancial contagion has highlighted other channels generating excess comovements among asset prices in addition to the “information channel” proposed by King and Wadhwani (1990). In Calvo (1999) contagion arises from correlation in liquidity shocks: agents, hit by a liquidity shock in one market, liquidate their position across markets in order to meet a margin call (see also Yuan, 2005). In Kyle and Xiong (2001), …nancial contagion is due to wealth e¤ects. In Fostel and Geanakoplos (2008) …nancial contagion arises as a result of the interplay between market incom- pleteness, agents’ heterogeneity, and margin requirements. In Kodres and Pritsker (2002), contagion happens through cross-market rebalancing, when traders hit by a shock in one market need to rebalance their portfolios of as- sets. In Pavlova and Rigobon (2007), contagion of stock market prices across 1See, among the many papers on the topic, Eichengreen et al. (1996), Edwards and Rigobon (2002), and Ehrmann et al. (2011). 1
=== PAGE 4/62 ===
countries arises from wealth transfers and portfolio constraints. The role of information spillovers in generating…nancial contagion is also illustrated by Cipriani and Guarino (2008): they show that because of informational spillovers across markets, herd behavior and informational cascades transmit from one market to another.2 Informational spillovers across markets are an appealing explanation for …nancial markets’ contagion. For this reason, it is important to test whether the theory accurately describes how learning occurs across markets and causes excess comovements across asset prices. On the one hand, assuming that agents process cross market information rationally (that is, in a Bayesian manner) may underestimate the relevance of informational spillovers. Traders in a market may overreact to what they observe in other markets; for in- stance, “panic selling” or “irrational exuberance” may occur in a market upon observing a crash or a strong rally in another. On the other hand, traders may focus on their own market and not be able to incorporate all the information content of trading activity in other markets. In other words, it is important to understand whether the theoretical models of information spillover accurately characterize, both in the direction and in the magnitude of the contagion e¤ect, the way traders process information across…nancial markets. It is di¢cult to test the theory’s predictions on…nancial contagion with…- nancial markets data. Financial datasets lack information on several traders’ characteristics—in particular, traders’ preferences and their information sets— which are unobservable; it is, therefore, hard to test the theoretical model’s prediction directly. To overcome this issue, we brought King and Wadhwani (1990)’s model to the laboratory: in a laboratory …nancial market, the experimenter di- rectly controls the information set available to subjects acting as traders, and can study the e¤ect of a piece of news regarding one market on other markets. In particular, in the laboratory …nancial economy that we imple- mented, traders trade an asset in a standard double auction. Two markets open in sequence, and traders in the second market observe the history of trades and prices in the…rst. In both markets, traders receive private infor- mation about their own asset’s fundamental value. Since asset fundamentals 2While the studies just mentioned explain contagion across markets, others have focused on contagion across …nancial institutions (see, e.g., the seminal contribution of Allen and Gale, 2000; and, for an experimental analysis, Trevino, 2013). 2
=== PAGE 5/62 ===
are correlated, information coming from the…rst market is relevant for the second; and informational spillovers lead to informational contagion across markets. The results of our experiment show that…nancial contagion across mar- kets occurs in the laboratory. In fact, the impact of the…rst market on the second is very close to that predicted by a Rational Expectations Equilibrium. Although private information is not perfectly aggregated in either market, subjects are able to use the public information coming from the market that opens …rst correctly. As a result, the correlation between asset prices is very close to what the theory predicts. We also studied whether subjects are af- fected by the history of trades and prices in the …rst market when theory suggests that they should not. We ran a treatment in which the two asset values were independently distributed. In agreement with the theoretical prediction, we observed no contagion in the laboratory. We conclude that in our study…nancial contagion does not stem from some irrational reaction to public news, but is the outcome of correct inference by subjects from the public information that they receive from the market opening…rst. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section2 presents the the- oretical framework. Section3 illustrates the experiment. Section4 explains the results. Section5 concludes. The Appendix contains the instructions of the experiment and additional results. 2 Theoretical framework 2.1 Preliminaries: King and Wadhwani (1990)’s model. The purpose of our paper is to test the informational contagion channel…rst proposed by King and Wadhwani (1990) in a controlled laboratory environ- ment. It is therefore useful for us to explain how informational contagion arises in their model. Let us consider a two-asset…nancial economy. In both markets, denoted by  and , the asset price change during a given time interval is a function of newly released information. King and Wadhwani (1990) consider two types of information: i) systemic news—a¤ecting the fundamental values of both assets; and ii) idiosyncratic news, speci…c to each asset. For simplicity’s sake, consider the case in which the two markets open in sequence, with market opening …rst. Traders in market receive news 3
=== PAGE 6/62 ===
about their own asset, and the price of asset  changes accordingly. When market  opens, traders in market  observe the price change occurred in market , but do not know whether it is due to idiosyncratic or systemic news. As a result, the equilibrium price in market will change even when the price change in market  was due to purely idiosyncratic reasons. The reason is that traders attach some probability to the event that the price change in market was due to news about the systemic component, common to both assets. It is easy to show that the correlation between asset prices in the two markets is higher than what we would observe if traders knew whether a shock is idiosyncratic or systemic (fundamental correlation). King and Wadhwani label this phenomenon“informational contagion”.3 2.2 The model To test informational contagion in the laboratory, we develop a model that captures the main insights of King and Wadwhani (1990), but is suitable to experimental implementation. Speci…cally, we consider a two-market economy, in which the two markets, labeled by  and , open sequentially. In each market, a continuum of risk- neutral traders trade one asset. The fundamental value of asset ( , which can be thought of as the present discounted value of the asset’s future stream of dividends) takes two values,0 or100, with the same probability:  = ½ 0 with probability1 2, 100 with probability1 2. Although the realization of   is unknown to market participants, they have private information about it; in particular, they receive a symmetric binary signal with precision075.4 In other words, each participant in market  receives a signal  distributed as follows:Pr(=0 j =0)=Pr( = 100j =100)=0 75. Market  opens after trading in market  ends. Traders in market  3King and Wadhwani (1990) contrast this contagion equilibrium, which they label “partially-revealing Rational Expectations Equilibrium,” with a “fully-revealing Rational Expectations Equilibrium” (in which traders observe whether a shock is idyosyncratic or systemic, and although information‡ows across markets, there is no contagion), and with a “no-communication Rational Expectations Equilibrium” (in which traders do not observe the price in the other market, and no informational spillover occurs across markets). 4Obviously, any precision greater than05 would deliver the same qualitative results. 4
=== PAGE 7/62 ===
only trade asset . The fundamental value of asset ,  , equals   with probability; and with probability1¡.  is a random variable distributed as follows: = ½ 0 with probability1 2, 100 with probability1 2. In other words, when =0 , then  =0 with probability+(1 ¡ )1 2 and   = 100with probability(1 ¡ )1 2; when   = 100 then   = 100 with probability +(1 ¡ )1 2 and  =0 with probability(1 ¡ )1 2.5 Traders in market receive a symmetric binary signal on the realiza- tion of  with precision075, that is,Pr(=0 j=0)=Pr( =100 j= 100)=0 75. Furthermore, traders in market  not only observe their own private information, but also the price in market. The perfectly competitive Rational Expectations Equilibrium (REE) price of asset is0 when  =0 and 100 when =100 ; that of asset depends both on   and on . If both   and  are0 (or100), then the price of asset  is0 (or100, respectively); if instead   and  are di¤erent, then the equilibrium price of is  + (1 ¡ ).6 In King and Wadhwani (1990), contagion occurs because agents do not know whether a change in the price of one market stems from an idiosyncratic or systemic shock. In our set up, with probability  the realization of   a¤ects  , whereas with probability(1¡ ) it does not;7 in the…rst case, the shock to  is systemic (as it a¤ects the fundamental values in both markets), whereas in the second case it is idiosyncratic (and  is determined by its own idiosyncratic component). It is easy to show that in the REE the correlation 5In King and Wadhwani (1990), the distribution of asset values is   =  +  +    =  +  +  where , ,  and  are normal random variables and and  are parameters;  and  re‡ect systemic news and  and  idiosyncratic ones. In our model, the distribution of asset values is di¤erent. Nevertheless, we can interpret the realization of  as an idiosyncratic shock to market with probability(1¡), and as a common shock a¤ecting both markets with probability; and the realization of  as an idiosyncratic shock to market that may occur when the market is not hit by a common shock. Since our assumptions imply that both asset values have the same supportf0100g, their distribution is simple to explain to subjects, which makes the model implementation in the laboratory easier. 6See Appendix  for the derivation. 7To compare our set up with King and Wadhani (1990) we can think of the uncondi- tional value in both markets as being equal to50 and interpret the realizations of  and  as the shock (or the arrival of news) in the market. 5
=== PAGE 8/62 ===
between prices is p (1¡2+22) , whereas the correlation between fundamentals is only ;8 since p (1¡2+22) is greater than, there is contagion from market  to market . 3 The Experiment We ran the experiment in the ELSE Experimental Laboratory at the De- partment of Economics at UCL. Overall, we recruited192 subjects (under- graduate students in all disciplines) to conduct twelve sessions, six for each of two experimental treatments. Subjects had no previous experience with this experiment and participated in one session only. 3.1 Experimental Design In order to implement the economy described in Section2 in each session 16 subjects traded in a two-market, computerized, continuous time, double auction. We ran two treatments. In the baseline treatment (Treatment ), the value of asset  was equal to the value of asset with probability05 (i.e., =0 5); in this casePr( = j = )=0 75 Pr( = ) for =0 100, that is, asset fundamentals were not independent. In the control treatment (Treatment), the value of asset was set equal to the value of (i.e., = 0), andPr( = j = )=0 5=Pr(  = ), that is, asset fundamentals were independent. Because in Treatment asset fundamentals are not independent, informa- tional contagion arises in equilibrium: in the REE, the correlation between prices is071, higher than that between fundamentals (05). In contrast, in Treatment, since the two asset values are independent, informational con- tagion does not arise in equilibrium—in the REE, the correlation between prices is0, the same as that between fundamentals. 3.2 Procedures In each of the 12 sessions of the experiment, we had 10 rounds of trading activity. Each session was organized in the following way: 8For the reader’s convenience, the correlations are derived in Appendix. 6
=== PAGE 9/62 ===
² Subjects were given written instructions (see Appendix ). Subjects could ask clarifying questions, which we answered in private. After reading the instructions, subjects answered a short questionnaire to check their understanding of the experiment. A subject giving the wrong answer was noti…ed that the answer was wrong and was asked to answer again until he gave the correct answer. ² We randomly assigned the16 participants of each session to two groups of8 subjects, group  and group . A subject remained in the same group for the entire experiment. ² In each round, market  and market  opened in sequence. In even rounds, group traded asset; after trading in market ended, group  traded asset . In odd rounds, group  traded asset  and group  asset . ² In each market, subjects traded the asset by exchanging it among them- selves for200 seconds. They used the trading platform shown in Figure 1, Appendix . ² While one group of subjects was trading, the other observed the history of quotes and trades. Moreover, while one of the two groups traded in market , we asked the subjects in the other group to indicate their belief on the value of asset being100 after80,140 and190 seconds of trading activity. This helped subjects to pay attention to the trading ‡ow in the other market; additionally, it provided us with information about how subjects interpreted the history of trading in market. Let us now discuss the procedures for each round in detail. In each round, before the start of trading activity in market, the computer program drew the asset value , which with equal probability, was equal to0 or100 units of a …ctitious experimental currency called lira. At the beginning of the round each participant received an endowment of4 units of asset  and500 liras. Subjects also received information about the asset value in the form of a symmetric binary signal with precision075. Speci…cally, when the asset value was100, six participants observed a“green ball” and two participants a “red ball;” if the value was equal to 0, six participants observed a“red ball” and two participants a“green ball.” This 7
=== PAGE 10/62 ===
signal structure guarantees that in each round the private signals collectively reveal the fundamental  even if the number of subjects is…nite.9 During the200 seconds of trading activity in market A, subjects could post o¤ers to sell or buy units of asset . To post a sell o¤er, a subject would click on a sell button and enter the minimum price he was willing to accept. The o¤er appeared immediately on everyone’s screen, in a column labeled Current Sell O¤ers (the identity of the subject making the o¤er was not revealed). Similarly, to post a buy o¤er, a subject would click on a buy button and enter the maximum price he was willing to pay. A trade would automatically be executed by the computer whenever the lowest sell price (ask) was lower than the highest buy price (bid). As a result, if a subject wanted, for instance, to buy at the prevailing (i.e., the lowest) ask, he could simply enter a price equal to or greater than that price, and the trade would be immediately executed (at the outstanding price). If, instead, a subject input, e.g., an ask price higher than the outstanding ones, his ask would simply appear among the Current Sell O¤ers (where all asks were shown in increasing order). Subjects could choose any buy or sell price greater than or equal to zero.10 For each subject, the maximum number of outstanding sell o¤ers allowed was equal to the units of the asset held in his portfolio; and the sum of all the buy o¤er prices could not exceed the cash held in his portfolio. At any time, a subject could withdraw outstanding buy or sell o¤ers that had not already been executed. A subject’s screen also displayed his current portfolio of cash and of units of the asset, the list of past trades in the round (with his own executed trades highlighted), all the outstanding bid and ask prices, and the time left before the end of the round (see Figure1). After trading in market  ended, trading in the other market occurred according to the same protocol. In particular, each participant in market received an endowment of4 units of asset  and 500 liras. Subjects also received information about the realization of the random variable (which we labeled the “-coin,” in the experiment) in the form of a symmetric binary signal with precision075, exactly as explained above for asset. In the instructions, for Treatment, we explained to subjects that the value of 9Other signal structures, even if informative, may not deliver the same result (for instance, i.i.d. signals with precision 075). 10Also, a subject was not allowed to place a buy o¤er higher than one of his outstanding sell o¤ers (in other words, a subject could not trade with himself). 8
=== PAGE 11/62 ===
asset  was equal either to asset or to the -coin with equal probability; and for Treatment , we explained that the value of asset  was equal to the -coin. At the end of the round, the values of the two assets,   and  , were revealed, and each subject saw a detailed summary of his per-round payo¤ on the screen. Each subject’s per-round payo¤ was equal to the sum of the cash and of the value of the assets in his portfolio. Additionally, we paid subjects a transaction bonus of5 liras for the …rst5 trades. The bonus gave subjects an incentive to exchange the asset in an environment in which payo¤s and endowments are the same.11 We limited the bonus to the …rst …ve trades to avoid the possibility that subjects would keep exchanging the asset among themselves just to earn the bonus. In each session, before we ran the actual experiment, we had a training phase to familiarize subjects with the trading platform.12 The training phase consisted of10 rounds of trading in only one market. Since the session was for training purposes only, we do not report its results in the main text of the paper.13 At the end of the experiment, we randomly selected three rounds and summed up the per-round payo¤s. We converted experimental liras into British Pounds at the exchange rate of$1=100 liras; additionally, subjects earned$5 as a show-up fee. We paid subjects in private immediately after the end of the experiment. On average, subjects earned$28 (approximately equal to$475). Sessions lasted approximately3 hours. 11Note that, in the economy we described in Section 2, there are no gains from trade and as a result, agents do not have any incentive to trade at the REE price (no-trade theorem). 12The use of experienced subjects is typical in trading experiments with double auc- tions, since convergence to competitive equilibrium requires repetitions, even in simple environments (Smith, 1962). For example, Copeland and Friedman (1991) use subjects who had already previously participated in an asset market trading experiment; Forsythe and Lundholm (1990) make subjects participate in double auctions experiments in two consecutive nights. In our experiment, we are interested in the informational spillover from market  to market ; it is, therefore, important to avoid that the trading activity in market is only noise and reveals no information about the asset value because subjects are still learning how to trade. 13In Appendix , we show that the training session was indeed useful for subjects to learn how to trade. 9
=== PAGE 12/62 ===
4 Results We now turn to the discussion of the experimental results. We will …rst discuss the results of Treatment, where  0 and therefore theory predicts that informational contagion occurs. Later, we will compare these results with those of Treatment, where =0 and, according to theory, there is no informational contagion. In our model, contagion is caused by an informational spillover from mar- ket  to market . Of course, the information that subjects in market  obtain from the trading activity in market depends on how well the price in that market aggregates private information. For this reason, as a…rst step, in the next section we investigate the aggregation of private information in market . 4.1 Trading and price convergence in market A As we explained above, given the signal structure implemented in the labo- ratory, the signals that subjects receive reveal : that is, there is enough information in the market to learn  through trading activity. Therefore, the price aggregates private information if, at least by the end of the round, it equals   (or, given our transaction bonus, it di¤ers from it by at most5 liras). To study the aggregation of information in market , we consider the average of the last…ve trade prices in each round, which we label the“…nal price” and denote by 5  .14 Figure1 shows a histogram of the per-round distance (de…ned as the absolute value of the di¤erence) between the …nal price and  . As the …gure shows, in almost 70 percent of the cases, the distance is less than20 liras. The distribution is heavily skewed to the right: the average distance is23 liras, higher than the median, which is less than 10 liras (see Table1); in 20% of the rounds, the distance is higher than50 liras. In other words, the price does aggregate private information well, but there are some rounds in which aggregation fails. 14On average, in each round, there were20 trades (with a median of185 and a standard deviation of 66). Recall that we paid subjects for the …rst …ve trades they executed (in order to give them an incentive to trade in an economy in which otherwise there would be no gains from trade). Given that in each market there are8 subjects and that a trade involves two parties, 20 trades per round is the amount of trading activity that theory suggests our bonus should have generated. 10
=== PAGE 58/62 ===
1) what you hold at the end of the round: the amount of liras plus the value of the units of the good or  (according to the good that you traded); 2) an extra payment of5 liras for the …rst5 buy or sell trades that you execute (up to a maximum of25 liras in each round). We will randomly select3 out of the10 rounds of Phase  and we will sum your per-round payo¤s in these three rounds to determine your …nal payo¤ in liras for Phase . We will then convert liras into pounds at the exchange rate of 100 liras = $1 and we will sum up this amount to the participation fee of$5. We will pay you in private, immediately at the end of the experiment. You will now go through a short questionnaire to make sure that you have understood the instructions and then Phase will start. 56
=== PAGE 59/62 ===
Instructions for Phase II - Treatment II Let us now move the Phase of the experiment. Phase  This phase consists of10 rounds. The rules are identical for all rounds. As we said, you belong to the same group as in Phase . The main di¤erence with respect to Phase  is that there are now two goods, good  and good . Moreover, in each round, the two goods are traded one after the other: …rst, one group trades good; then, after the group has…nished, the other group trades good. Each group trades for200 seconds. Whenever a group is not trading, every participant in that group can observe the trading activity of the other group. The value of good  As in Phase , at the beginning of every round, the value of good will be determined by the computer with a mechanism simulating the tossing of a coin. The coin can have value0 liras or value100 liras depending on whether it lands heads or tails. Like in the toss of a fair coin, the chances of the coin having value0 or100 are equal. The value of good  At the beginning of every round, the value of good will be determined by the computer with a mechanism simulating the tossing of a coin. The coin can have value0 liras or value100 liras depending on whether it lands heads or tails. Like in the toss of a fair coin, the chances of the coin having value0 or100 are equal. Note that the computer will use one coin (coin) for good  and one coin (coin) for good . These two coin tosses are independent, that is, the outcome of the one coin toss does not a¤ect the other. Information you will receive When good  is traded, all participants belonging to the group trading good  will receive some information about the value of good . When good  is traded, all participants belonging to the group trading good will receive some information on the value of good. How is this information given? When you trade good, you will receive information on the value of the good exactly as described in Phase . If the value is 100, you will receive a coloured ball;6 participants will receive a green ball, whereas only2 will receive a red ball. If, instead, the value is0,6 participants will receive a red ball, whereas only2 will receive a green ball. 57
=== PAGE 60/62 ===
When you trade good, you will receive information on the value of good . The procedure will be the same. If the value of good  is100 you will receive a coloured ball;6 participants will receive a green ball, whereas only 2 will receive a red ball. If, instead, the value of good is0,6 participants will receive a red ball, whereas only2 will receive a green ball. When is the information given? As in Phase, every participant receives his/her information before his/her group starts trading (at the beginning of the200 seconds). Procedures for each round As indicated above, the groups and  trade in sequence. In odd rounds (1-3-5-...), group trades good  (for 200 seconds), and then group trades good  (for200 seconds). In even rounds (2-4-6-...), group  trades good  (for 200 seconds), and then group trades good  (for 200 seconds). The sequence of activities in round1 will be the following: 1. Group  participants receive information on the value of good. 2. Group  participants trade good for 200 seconds, while participants in the other group () only observe. While observing the behavior of Group  participants, Group participants will indicate, on a separate form, what they think the chance is that the true value of good  is 100. 3. Group  participants receive information on the value of good. 4. Group  participants trade good for 200 seconds, while participants of the other group only observe. 5. All participants receive information on the outcomes of their trading activity. In particular, everyone will observe the true value of good and of good and will be able to compute his/her own payo¤ according to the rules indicated below. After the …rst round is concluded, we start the second round of the ex- periment. The procedures are identical to those of the…rst round, with the exception that now group  starts and trades good  and then group  trades good . The experiment continues until the10 round is completed. Trading 58
=== PAGE 61/62 ===
The trading platform on your computer, the initial endowment, and the way you sell or buy a good are all the same as in Phase. The only di¤erence is that now the two groups trade di¤erent goods (with possibly di¤erent values) one after the other, with one group observing the trading activity of the other. Payment at the end of the experiment The per-round payo¤s will be determined in the same way as in Phase. At the end of every round, you will be told the true value of both goods and . Your total per-round payo¤ depends on: 1) what you hold at the end of the round: the amount of liras plus the value of the units of the good or  (according to the good that you traded); 2) an extra payment of5 liras for the …rst5 buy or sell trades that you execute (up to a maximum of25 liras in each round). We will randomly select3 out of the10 rounds of Phase  and we will sum your per-round payo¤s in these three rounds to determine your …nal payo¤ in liras for Phase . We will then convert liras into pounds at the exchange rate of 100 liras = $1 and we will sum up this amount to the participation fee of$5. We will pay you in private, immediately at the end of the experiment. You will now go through a short questionnaire to make sure that you have understood the instructions and then Phase will start. 59
=== PAGE 62/62 ===
Figure F1: Trading Platform 60