
=== PAGE 1/30 ===
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO WORKING PAPER SERIES A Quarterly, Utilization-Adjusted Series on Total Factor Productivity John Fernald Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco April 2014 John Fernald. 2014. “A Quarterly, Utilization-Adjusted Series on Total Factor Productivity” Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco Working Paper 2012-19. https://doi.org/10.24148/wp2012-19 The views in this paper are solely the responsibility of the author and should not be interpreted as reflecting the views of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco or the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Working Paper 2012-19 http://www.frbsf.org/economic-research/publications/working-papers/2012/19/ 
=== PAGE 2/30 ===
 A Quarterly, Utilization-Adjusted Series on Total Factor Productivity John Fernald* Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco April 2014 , Abstract: This paper describes a real-time, quarterly growth-accounting database for the U.S. business sector. The data on inputs, including capital, are used to produce a quarterly series on total factor productivity (TFP). In addition, the dataset implements an adjustment for variations in factor utilization—labor effort and the workweek of capital. The utilization adjustment follows Basu, Fernald, and Kimball (BFK, 2006) as updated in Basu, Fernald, Fisher, and Kimball (BFFK, 2013). Using relative prices and input-output information, the series are also decomposed into separate TFP and utilization-adjusted TFP series for equipment investment (including consumer durables) and “consumption” (defined as business output less equipment and consumer durables). JEL Codes: E22, E23, O41, O47, Keywords: Total factor productivity, cyclical productivity, multi-sector growth models * Contact email: john.fernald@sf.frb.org. The data described in this paper are available at http://www.frbsf.org/economics/economists/jfernald/quarterly_tfp.xls. I thank several excellent research assistants who have worked with me on this project, most notably Kyle Matoba (who wrote and rewrote large portions of the code and found sensible solutions to a range of practical problems), as well as Titan Alon, Kuni Natsuki, and David Thipphavong. This draft is updated intermittently as I make improvements in methodology. For helpful discussions of various aspects of the implementation, I especially thank Susanto Basu, Ryan Forshay, Bob Hall, and Bart Hobijn. In addition, I thank other colleagues at the San Francisco Fed as well as seminar participants where related papers were presented for providing helpful comments on the dataset. The views in this paper are solely the responsibility of the authors and should not be interpreted as reflecting the views of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco or the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
=== PAGE 3/30 ===
 Academic researchers and policymakers frequently want high-frequency measures of technology. These measures might be fed into models, or used to understand the effects of technology shocks on the economy, or to assess trends in potential output. Relatively crude measures of the Solow residual are easy to construct. But more careful quarterly measures that better correspond to theoretical concepts are more difficult to construct. With annual data, in contrast, there are several relatively high-quality sources of aggregate and/or industry total factor productivity (TFP), including the “multifactor productivity” measures produced by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), various measures produced by Dale Jorgenson and collaborators,1 and the EU KLEMS project. This paper describes a new real-time, quarterly growth-accounting database for the U.S. business sector. There are three major advantages relative to naïve or crude Solow residuals. First, the data on inputs, including both capital and labor, apply the careful growth-accounting methods used by the BLS, Jorgenson, EU-KLEMS, and others. Second, the quarterly dataset implements an adjustment for variations in factor utilization that follows Basu, Fernald, and Kimball (BFK, 2006). (As of March 2014, the estimates have been updated using Basu, Fernald, Fisher, and Kimball (2014), which is the same model and method, but more recent data.) After all, even the most careful measure of raw TFP does not provide a quarterly measure of technology change. A major reason is variations in factor utilization—labor effort and the workweek of capital. Third, using relative prices and input-output information, the series are also decomposed into separate TFP and utilization-adjusted TFP series for equipment investment (including 1 For references and available datasets, see http://scholar.harvard.edu/jorgenson/data (accessed September 26, 2012). 
=== PAGE 4/30 ===
2 consumer durables) and “consumption” (defined as business output less equipment and consumer durables). Because of the utilization-adjustment, the resulting relative technology series are not simply equated to relative prices (the default in much of the macro literature that follows Greenwood, Hercowitz, and Krusell, 1997). In terms of the first advantage, careful growth accounting controls for heterogeneity across workers and types of capital. Consider labor input. Simple hours worked data (e.g., from the BLS productivity and cost release) combine hours of construction workers, fast-food cashiers, auto mechanics, dentists, engineers, CEOs, and so forth. These workers have very different wage rates which, presumably, correspond to differences in marginal products. Similarly, a computer (which provides a service flow for only three or four years) needs to have a higher marginal product than an office building (which might provide services for 50 years). The dataset weights different inputs using actual or estimated relative factor prices to control for these differences in implied marginal products. Note that this heterogeneity in the data might matter even for researchers with interest in aggregate models with a representative agent and a single type of capital. For example, labor composition (or quality) fluctuates a fair amount at high frequency—e.g., in recessions, labor quality systematically rises, since workers with lower skills and education are more likely to lose their jobs. Unless measured TFP controls for labor composition then, relative to underlying technology, measured TFP will be biased up in recessions. Economic theory suggests that another form of heterogeneity is potentially important: Heterogeneity by type of final product. Considerable recent literature has focused on so-called investment-specific technical change (see, for example, Greenwood, Hercowitz, and Krusell, 1997; and Basu, Fernald, Fisher, and Kimball, BFFK, 2013). I use relative prices to decompose 
=== PAGE 5/30 ===
3 TFP for the aggregate economy into TFP for equipment and consumer durables, and into TFP for “consumption” (everything other than equipment and consumer durables). As with the standard TFP residual, these measures are not necessarily good measures of technological change from quarter to quarter. Indeed, an important caveat is that Fisher (2006) and BFFK find that pass-through from (fully corrected) relative technology shocks to relative prices is very slow. However, BFFK find that uncorrected measures of relative TFP are more closely related to relative prices—almost as a measure of accounting.2 Importantly, the utilization adjustment corrects for a quantitatively important wedge between measured relative TFP and underlying relative technology. The adjustment for variable utilization in the quarterly series follows Basu, Fernald, Fisher, and Kimball (BFFK, 2013). (Previous versions of this quarterly series followed Basu, Fernald, and Kimball, BFK, 2006). BFFK and BFK sought to adjust for a range of non- technological factors that affect measured TFP, of which variations in the utilization margin–i.e., the intensity margin for the workweek of capital and labor effort—are only one. Other potential corrections include allowing for deviations from perfect competition and for various reallocation effects. BFFK update the earlier BFK results, and estimate utilization imposing constant returns, which is more consistent with the current paper (though that turns out not to be a major issue for utilization). These estimates rely on annual data, where there are rich industry-level details on output and intermediate-input flows, as well as on industry investment. These data are not available quarterly. Nevertheless, the utilization-adjusted quarterly series is an improvement over more “naïve” measures of TFP as a high-frequency indicator of technological change. 2 The intuition comes from the dual approach to growth accounting: TFP can equivalently be defined as growth in real factor prices. If all firms faced the same factor prices and had the same factor shares, then real factor prices differ only because of output prices. See Basu, Fernald, Fisher, and Kimball (2011). 
=== PAGE 6/30 ===
4 Finally, this series incorporates output information from both the income and product sides of the national accounts. Nalewaik (2011) argues that both measures are informative about economic activity, particularly around business-cycle turning points. The default TFP measures here weight the two approaches equally.3 Section I defines TFP, labor and capital inputs, and utilization. It discusses the method I follow to decompose TFP into investment and consumption components, and then discusses the BFK approach to controlling for variable utilization. Section II summarizes the key data sources used to construct quarterly TFP. Section III provides a detailed discussion of data sources. Section IV compares the quarterly TFP series to the well known annual BLS multifactor productivity series. I. Method Aggregate TFP Suppose we model aggregate activity with an aggregate production function:4     1, 1 2, 1 , 1 1, 2, ,, ,.. , , ,... ,tt t t J t tt t N t tYF Z K K K K E L H H H A   (1) K is capital input, which is an aggregate of the service flow, Kj,t-1, from the J types of capital (e.g., computers, transportation equipment, structures, and land); the service flow in period t is proportional to the stock of that type of capital at the end of period t-1. L is labor input, which is an aggregate of the hours worked, Hj, by N types of workers (e.g., female 40- year-old college-educated professionals, male 22-year old high-school dropouts, and so forth). Z is capital utilization (e.g., the average workweek of capital) and E is effort per unit of labor. A is technological change. 3 I thank Bob Hall for encouraging the incorporation of income-side information. 4 See Basu and Fernald (2001) for a discussion of the more general case in which an aggregate constant- returns production function may not exist and how, in practice, the effects show up in the aggregate Solow residual. 
=== PAGE 7/30 ===
5 The representative firm takes capital rental rates, Rj, and wages, Wn, as given and charges a markup µ of price over marginal cost. The first-order conditions for cost minimization imply that output elasticities are a markup over cost shares, i.e.,     ,, , ,tj t j t t j t j t t j tYK K Y RK P Y    and     ,, ,tn t n t t n n t t n tYH H Y W H P Y    . γj,t is the share of capital of type j, where ,jt tj   , and βn,t is the share of labor of type n, where (with zero economic profits, which is consistent with markups that just cover fixed costs) , (1 )nt tn   . In the data, we will take capital’s share αt as a residual, which enforces that capital and labor’s shares sum to one. In this setup, differences in factor prices are assumed to imply differences in marginal products. Composition-adjusted growth in capital and labor input are:  ,, 1 ,, , ln ( ) ln ln (1 ) ln ln ln , where ln ln tj t j t j t tn t t n t t t t n tn n KK LH Q H H H                (2) These definitions weight different types of inputs using marginal products. Markups hit all factors equally, so that they do not enter these definitions. Labor input is explicitly decomposed into raw hours worked, H, and “quality,” Q, where Q is implicitly defined in the second equation as the difference between growth in labor input and growth in raw hours. The reason for explicitly breaking out quality and quantity of labor is that they come from different sources that rely on different methods. 5 Differentiating the production function and dropping time subscripts (for simplicity) yields: ln ( ln (1 ) ln( )) ln lnYK L U A         , (3) 5 Raw hours worked are (relatively) easy to measure, and the BLS reports those quarterly. In contrast, the mix of workers, and their relative wages (which are used as proxies for relative marginal products)need to be estimated from smaller samples from the Current Population Survey. In addition, there are several methods of estimating relative marginal products for different types of workers from those data. 
=== PAGE 8/30 ===
6 where ln ln (1 ) lnUZ E      . We normalize the elasticity of F with respect to technology, A, to equal unity. We define TFP growth (aka, the Solow residual) as: ln ln ln (1 ) lnTFP Y K L         (2) Given an estimate of the contribution of utilization, lnU , utilization-adjusted TFP growth is: ln - ln lnTFP Util TFP U    With perfect competition, so 1  , ln -TFP Util equals technology growth, A . In the context of a specific model, TFP is often defined using (1), i.e., as the multiplicative technology term in the production function, A. Under standard conditions (constant returns to scale, perfect competition, and identical factor prices for all producers), the statistical definition corresponds to the multiplicative technology term in the model. Hulten (1978) shows that—in a model with heterogeneous, constant-returns, perfectly competitive producers facing identical factor prices—this definition of aggregate TFP can be interpreted as the outward shift in society’s aggregate production possibilities frontier. However, in some models (e.g., with markups, possibly heterogeneous across producers, of price above marginal cost, or with factor adjustment costs that lead the shadow cost of inputs to differ across firms), aggregate TFP and aggregate technology are not the same—even in the absence of variable factor utilization; see, for example, Basu and Fernald (2001). Even then, the statistical definition of lnTFP is still an object that can be defined in the model and compared with the data. Any failures of aggregation (so that there is no aggregate production function of the form posited here) will, of course, show up in utilization-corrected TFP growth. Similarly, if observed factor shares do not equal output elasticities—as in the case with imperfect competition—then 
=== PAGE 9/30 ===
7 those effects will also show up in utilization-adjusted TFP growth. Using detailed industry data at an annual frequency, BFK and BFFK control for these factors to develop a “purified” technology measure. As noted above, these necessary data are available only with a long lag, and are not available quarterly. Utilization Basu, Fernald, and Kimball (2006) and Basu, Fernald, Fisher, and Kimball (2013) seek to estimate “purified” Solow residuals by controlling for non-technological factors that could affect these residuals. In particular, BFK estimate a Hall (1990)-style regression on industry-level data, which allows for non-constant returns to scale and imperfect competition as well as variable factor utilization. In quarterly data, it is not possible to implement the full BFK estimation. However, we can implement part of it, in order to decompose TFP growth into utilization change, lnU , and utilization-adjusted TFP, ln TFPA . A large literature suggests that unobserved variations in factor utilization are important over the business cycle.6 For example:  Firms hoard labor in downturns, because they do not want to fire workers who have valuable skills that they will need in the future;  firms reduce the workweek of capital, because it isn’t worth paying a shift premium to get people to work at night or because the capital will depreciate as it is worked more intensively;  firms shut factories because, in a putty-clay world, the value of the output that can be produced from using the capital doesn’t cover the variable costs in terms of labor and materials. The challenge is to derive a suitable proxy for unobserved output utilization variation, lnU . BFK consider a firm that seeks to minimize the present discounted value of costs for any given path of output. There is a convex cost of adjusting the quasi-fixed factors—capital stock 6 See Basu, Fernald, and Kimball (2006) for references. 
=== PAGE 10/30 ===
8 and number of employees. In addition to this extensive margin, firms have access to various intensive margins: Hours worked per employee; effort required of employees per hour of work; and the workweek of capital (e.g., varying the number of shifts). BFK show conditions in which the relatively easily observed margin (hours per worker) proxy for the two difficult-to-observe margins (labor effort and capital’s workweek). In particular, the basic idea behind using growth in hours-per-worker to the regression as a proxy for unobserved variations in labor effort and capital’s workweek is that a cost-minimizing firm operates on all margins—whether observed or unobserved—simultaneously. As a result, changes in observed margins can proxy for otherwise- unobserved utilization changes. If labor is particularly valuable, for example, firms will work existing employees both longer (observed hours per worker rise) and harder (unobserved effort rises). In particular, BFK estimate (with demand-side instruments) the following equation on industry data: ln ln ln( / ) ln ii ii ii iYX H N A      where ln ln ln lniK i i L i i M i iX sK sL sM      . Xi is revenue-share-weighted inputs of capital, labor, and intermediate-inputs, Mi. ln( / )iiHN is hours/worker (note that total hours, as well as labor quality, is already included in labor input, Li). The coefficient i , which can be estimated, relates observed hours growth to unobserved variations in labor effort and capital’s workweek. That coefficient incorporates various elasticities including, in particular, the elasticity of unobserved effort with respect to hours, from the implicit function relating them (which came out of optimization). 
=== PAGE 11/30 ===
9 To create a quarterly utilization series, we use the estimated industry i coefficients, applied to quarterly data. We first detrend the data using the Christiano-Fitzgerald bandpass filter to remove components of hours/worker at frequencies lower than 2 and exceeding 32 quarters. We then use the average industry weights from BFK to create an aggregate quarterly utilization measure. Investment versus consumption Considerable recent literature looks at the role of “investment-specific technical change,” as in Greenwood, Hercowitz, and Krusell (1997). BFFK (2013) argue that a more natural (though equivalent) breakdown is along the lines of equipment investment versus consumption. To allow an analysis along these lines, I use relative prices to decompose aggregate TFP into TFP for the (non-structures, non-residential) investment sector, I, and for the consumption sector, C. “Consumption” in this context means everything that isn’t in the investment sector, i.e., everything other than private business equipment and intellectual property investment as well as consumer durables. In particular, we can take aggregate TFP growth (defined in equation 1) as, identically, equal to: ln ln (1 ) lnII I CTFP w TFP w TFP     , where jw is the share of sector (, )jC I .7 If producers in both sectors have equal factor shares, pay the same factor prices, and have indirect business taxes that are a constant proportion to one another,8 then changes in relative TFP equal changes in relative prices: 7 As Basu and Fernald (2002) discuss, there are also reallocation effects related to differences in factor prices across sectors. The data are not available to measure those terms in quarterly data. 8 Under zero profits, which we maintain, the value of output equals the value of input: , where Investment, consumptionmm m m m mPY W L RK m  . Differentiating logarithmically, assuming equal factor shares in the two sectors, yields: ln ln (1 ) ln ln (1 ) ln lnmm mm m mYK LR W P            . 
=== PAGE 12/30 ===
10 ln ln ln lnIC CITFP TFP P P      (4) ln IP is the prices of equipment and software combined with consumer durables; ln CP is the price of business output less the price of investment.9 That is, if ln P is growth in the price of business output, then ln CP is defined implicitly by ln (1 ) ln ln II CIP wP w P     . I impose (4) quarter-by-quarter, which is a strong assumption. BFFK find that passthrough of relative technology to relative prices can take years. However, the link between relative TFP and relative prices is closer and faster. Much of the slippage, however, reflects utilization, which drives a gap between measured TFP and technology. BFFK show how to use input-output tables flows to map utilization to final uses. II. Data Sources and Implementation Detailed discussion of data and implementation is in the appendix. This section provides a high-level summary. Key data sources for estimating (unadjusted) quarterly TFP for the U.S. business sector are the following: (i) Hours: The BLS productivity and cost release provides data on ln H for the business sector. These data are available from 1947:1 on. (ii) Output: Output is a weighted average of the income and expenditure sides of the quarterly national income and product accounts (NIPA). NIPA provide explicit data on real and nominal expenditure-side business output. (It is expenditure side because it is defined as expenditure-based GDP less non-business output.) I construct nominal income-side business output by taking gross domestic income and subtracting nominal output of general government and the household sector. The left-hand-side is measured TFP; the right-hand-side is share-weighted real factor prices. Assuming factor prices are equal in the two sectors implies the equation in the text. Indirect business taxes drive a wedge between producer and purchaser prices but do not affect the relationship as long as log-changes over time are the same in both sectors. See Basu, Fernald, Fisher, and Kimball (2013) for more discussion of the relationship between relative prices and relative technologies. 9 ln CP , the price of business output less the price of equipment and consumer durables, is defined implicitly by ln ln ln CI CIP wP w P    . 
=== PAGE 26/30 ===
24 I would note several other differences relative to the MFP calculation of factor shares.25 First, the MFP data assume that capital in the financial sector earns an exogenous return, since they consider the implicit nominal return to capital (the return in the user cost formula that just exhausts factor payments) in the financial sector to be unreasonably high. Rather than arbitrarily adjust factor payments for one sector, I simply take the NIPA data as given.26 Second, the MFP data seek to match nominal output from the expenditure side of the national accounts, whereas data on factor payments come from the income side. The MFP data resolve this by including the statistical discrepancy to capital income. The BLS assumes that the statistical discrepancy comes entirely from capital payments, so they add the statistical discrepancy to gross operating surplus. A priori, it is not obvious that the statistical discrepancy is entirely a matter of capital income such as corporate profits.27 Even in terms of expenditure, an alternative and relatively agnostic assumption is that the statistical discrepancy is distributed according to factor cost. In addition, my measure of output weights both the income and expenditure sides equally. Hence, I do not allocate the statistical discrepancy. Utilization The disaggregated BLS hours-per-worker data necessary to make the BFK adjustment are available quarterly (or even monthly), matching our needs. I assume that the coefficients on 25 The BLS methodology is described in Harper et al (2008)—see especially their appendix. A helpful BEA-BLS spreadsheet for selected years is available at http://www.bea.gov/about/pdf/relation_of_nipa_gdp_to_bls_private_sector_current_dollar_output.pdf . There are several more minor differences between my numbers and the BLS, where they use unpublished data, but these do not appear to be quantitatively important. 26 Basu, Inklaar, and Wang (2011) argue that the apparently excessive internal rate of return in finance (which leads to a low apparent labor share in finance) reflects a misallocation of value added (and, hence, gross operating surplus) between the financial sector and other sectors of the economy. In particular, a large portion of this apparently excessive financial capital return should properly be allocated to capital returns of other businesses. 27 For example, proprietors’ income affects both capital and labor, and is surely mismeasured (see NIPA Table 7.14 for a statement of the sizeable BEA imputation for underreporting on income tax returns). 
=== PAGE 27/30 ===
25 hours-per-worker growth, at a quarterly frequency, match the annual BFK coefficients. This allows me to estimate a quarterly utilization adjustment that, when annualized, is extremely close to the BFK adjustment.28 There are a number of technical details. First, we need a full panel of estimates of industry hours per worker. This requires merging BLS data on hours per worker on an SIC basis (which were discontinued in April, 2003) with more recent data on a NAICS basis. The BFK estimates used SIC classifications, so we generally use the NAICS data to extrapolate the SIC data beyond 2002. We also need to estimate some series for the earlier years. In particular, the SIC data for construction and manufacturing industries are generally available as of 1947 (sometimes earlier); much of the non-manufacturing, non-construction data begin only in 1964 or, in some cases, even later. BFK-augmented values that aren’t available from the BLS with annual data from Dale Jorgenson; since these data are not available quarterly, we instead use the available industry data to extrapolate series backwards. More specifically:  In the BLS data, hours data for both instruments and electrical equipment begin only in 1988; from 1988-2003, the correlation of hours in industrial machinery with hours in electrical equipment is above 0.9, and the correlation with instruments is above 0.8. Hence, for the 1988-2003 period, I project hours per worker in both electrical equipment and in instruments on hours per worker in industrial machinery, and then use the fitted values back to 1947. In addition, there is also no separate instruments industry in the NAICS data (it is part of electronics), so we extend the instruments category with data on computer and electronic products. 28 There are some nevertheless some differences. For example, in some cases, BLS data are not available for the full sample period or for all detailed industries; in those cases, BFK augmented the BLS data with annual estimates provided by Dale Jorgenson. Those data are not available quarterly, necessitating different adjustments. Nevertheless, the utilization estimate is extremely close to the BFK estimate. 
=== PAGE 28/30 ===
26  For transportation, information (i.e., communications), and utilities, there are disaggregated NAICS data back to either 1964 or 1972, but only aggregated SIC data back to 1964. In those cases, we take the NAICS data as our primary dataset and backcast with the SIC data.  Even on an SIC basis, data for most service industries begin only in 1964. We extract three principal components from the construction and manufacturing industries (22 total industries), and then project service hours on these principal components. For the earlier period, the fitted values from these projections provide an estimate of quarterly hours per worker for all industries. Second, I bandpass filter the log of the quarterly hours-per-worker data by industry to obtain frequencies between 8 and 32 quarters, I then take first differences and multiply by the estimated industry utilization coefficient from BFK. This gives industry estimates of utilization change. I use annual weights from BFK to aggregate across industries. For the period before 1949, I use the 1949 values; similarly, after 1996, I use the 1996 values. 29 Third, we use coefficients estimated in BFK to create an industry utilization series. Finally, we use annual BFK industry weights to aggregate. 29 BFK bandpass filter annual rather than quarterly data, which leads to a slight difference in the estimated trend and, hence, in the estimated utilization series. 
=== PAGE 29/30 ===
27 References Aaronson, Daniel and Daniel Sullivan (2001). “Growth in Worker Quality.” Economic Perspectives, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Basu, Susanto, and John Fernald (1997). Returns to Scale in U.S. Manufacturing: Estimates and Implications. Journal of Political Economy, April 1997. Basu, Susanto, and John Fernald (2001). “Why Is Productivity Procyclical? Why Do We Care? In New Directions in Productivity Analysis. Studies in Income and Wealth Vol. 63, ed. by Dean, Harper, and Hulten :: Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2001. Basu, Susanto, and John Fernald (2002). “Aggregate Productivity and Aggregate Technology.”European Economic Review, June 2002 Basu, Susanto, John Fernald, and Miles Kimball (2006). “Are Technology Improvements Contractionary?” American Economic Review. Basu, Susanto, John Fernald, Jonas Fisher, and Miles Kimball (2013). “Sector-Specific Technical Change.” Manuscript Basu, Susanto, Robert Inklaar, and J. Christina Wang (2011). “The value of risk: measuring the service output of US commercial banks.” Economic Inquiry 49 (1), 226-245. Bureau of Economic Analysis (2004). “BEA Depreciation Estimates.” Downloaded from www.bea.gov/national/FA2004/Tablecandtext.pdf. Bureau of Labor Statistics (2007). “Technical Information About the BLS Multifactor Productivity Measures.” http://www.bls.gov/mfp/mprtech.pdf. Bureau of Labor Statistics (2009). “Historical multifactor productivity measures (SIC 1948-87 linked to NAICS 1987-2008).” ftp://ftp.bls.gov/pub/special.requests/opt/mp/prod3.mfptablehis.zip (downloaded June 26, 2009.) Corrado, Carol, Charles Hulten, and Daniel Sichel (200x). Corrado, Carol; Jonathan Haskel, Cecilia Jona-Lasinio and Massimiliano Iommi, (2012)., Intangible Capital and Growth in Advanced Economies: Measurement Methods and Comparative Results.” Working Paper (June), available at http://www.intan-invest.net Dean, Edwin R. and Michael J. Harper (2001). "The BLS Productivity Measurement Program," In New Directions in Productivity Analysis. Studies in Income and Wealth Vol. 63, ed. by Dean, Harper, and Hulten :: Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2001. Elsby, Michael W. L., Bart Hobijn, and Ayşegül Şahin (2012). “The Decline of the U.S. Labor Share.” Manuscript prepared for Brookings Panel on Economic Activity, September 19- 20, 2013 
=== PAGE 30/30 ===
28 Fisher, Jonas D.M.(2006) . "The Dynamic Effects of Neutral and Investment-Specific Technology Shocks," Journal of Political Economy, University of Chicago Press, vol. 114(3), pages 413-451, June Fraumeni, Barbara M. (1997). “The Measurement of Depreciation in the U.S. National Income and Product Accounts.” Survey of Current Business, July. Gomme, Paul and Peter Rupert (2004). “Measuring Labor’s Share of Income.” Policy Discussion Papers, Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. Greenwood, Jeremy , Zvi Hercowitz and Per Krusell (1997). “Long-Run Implications of Investment-Specific Technological Change.” The American Economic Review, Vol. 87, No. 3 (Jun., 1997), pp. 342-362. Hall, Bronwyn (2010). “Measuring the Returns to R&D: The Depreciation Problem.” Contributions in Memory of Zvi Griliches, Jacques Mairesse and Manuel Trajtenberg, editors (p. 341 - 381). Hamilton, B. (2000). "Does Entrepreneurship Pay? An Empirical Analysis of the Returns to Self Employment". Journal of Political Economy, 108(3), 604-31. Harper, Michael J., Brent R. Moulton, Steven Rosenthal, and David B. Wasshausen (2008). “Integrated GDP-Productivity Accounts.” Manuscript, BLS, Hulten, Charles R. (1978). "Growth Accounting with Intermediate Inputs," Review of Economic Studies, Vol. 45, No. 3, October 1978, pp. 511-518. Hurst, Eric and Benjamin Wild Pugsley (2011). “What Do Small Businesses Do?” Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, 2011. Li, Wendy (2012). Nalewaik, Jeremy J. (2011). "The Income- and Expenditure-Side Estimates of U.S. Output Growth-An Update through 2011 Q2," Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, vol. 2, pp. 385-402. 