
=== PAGE 1/22 ===
American Economic Association Long-Run Implications of Investment-Specific Technological Change Author(s): Jeremy Greenwood, Zvi Hercowitz, Per Krusell Source: The American Economic Review, Vol. 87, No. 3 (Jun., 1997), pp. 342-362 Published by: American Economic Association Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2951349 Accessed: 10/06/2009 09:04 Your use of the JSTOR archive indicates your acceptance of JSTOR's Terms and Conditions of Use, available at http://www.jstor.org/page/info/about/policies/terms.jsp. JSTOR's Terms and Conditions of Use provides, in part, that unless you have obtained prior permission, you may not download an entire issue of a journal or multiple copies of articles, and you may use content in the JSTOR archive only for your personal, non-commercial use. Please contact the publisher regarding any further use of this work. Publisher contact information may be obtained at http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=aea. Each copy of any part of a JSTOR transmission must contain the same copyright notice that appears on the screen or printed page of such transmission. JSTOR is a not-for-profit organization founded in 1995 to build trusted digital archives for scholarship. We work with the scholarly community to preserve their work and the materials they rely upon, and to build a common research platform that promotes the discovery and use of these resources. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org. American Economic Association is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to The American Economic Review. http://www.jstor.org
=== PAGE 2/22 ===
Long-Run Implications of Investment-Specific Technological Change By JEREMY GREENWOOD, Zvi HERCOWITZ, AND PER KRUSELL* The role that investment-specific technological change played in generating post- war U.S. growth is investigated here. The premise is that the introduction of new, more efficient capital goods is an important source of productivity change, and an attempt is made to disentangle its effects from the more traditional Hicks- neutral form of technological progress. The balanced growth path for the model is characterized and calibrated to U.S. National Income and Product Account (NIPA) data. The quantitative analysis suggests that investment-specific tech- nological change accounts for the major part of growth. (JEL E13, 030, 041, 047) The price and quantity series for equipment investment in the postwar United States dis- play two striking features: (1 ) Low frequency: The relative price of equipment has declined at an average an- nual rate of more than 3 percent. Simul- taneously, the equipment-to-GNP ratio has increased substantially. Both pat- terns, which are fairly dramatic, are por- trayed in Figure 1. (2) High frequency: There is a negative cor- relation (-0.46) between the detrended relative price of new equipment and new equipment investment. This is shown in Figure 2.' The negative comovement between price and quantity at both frequencies can be interpreted as evidence that there has been significant technological change in the production of new equipment. Technological advances have made equipment less expensive, triggering in- creases in the accumulation of equipment both in the short and long run. Concrete examples in support of this interpretation abound: new and more powerful computers, faster and more efficient means of telecommunication and transportation, robotization of assembly lines, and so on. These observations bring to the fore the fol- lowing question: What is the quantitative role of investment-specific technological change as an engine of growth? To address this question, a simple vintage capital model is embedded into a general equilibrium framework. The main feature of the model is that the produc- tion of capital goods becomes increasingly ef- ficient with the passage of time. By analyzing the balanced growth path for the model, the contribution of investment-specific technolog- ical change to U.S. postwar economic growth is gauged. The balanced growth path for the model has the feature that both the stock of equipment and new equipment investment (measured in quality-adjusted units) grow at a higher rate than output. The upshot of the anal- ysis is that investment-specific technological change explains close to 60 percent of the growth in output per hours worked. Residual, neutral productivity change then accounts for the remaining 40 percent. Additionally, a strik- ing result from this growth-accounting exer- cise is that the time series for residual * Greenwood: Department of Economics, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627; Hercowitz; Department of Economics, Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv 69978, Israel; Krusell: Department of Economics, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627, Institute for Interna- tional Economic Studies, and CEPR. Part of this research was circulated earlier under the title "Macroeconomic Im- plications of Investment-Specific Technological Change." The work here has benefited enormously from the detailed comments of Charles Hulten, Edward Prescott, Paul Romer, and an anonymous referee. We thank them all. ' For the quantity series standard NIPA data is used. The price series are based on data in Robert J. Gordon ( 1990). See Appendix A for more detail on the data series. 342 
=== PAGE 3/22 ===
VOL 87 NO. 3 GREENWOOD ET AL: INVESTMENT-SPECIFIC TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE 343 2.8 0.08 2.6 w01:81 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ X \ I 0075 C: 2.4 =0.0 .0-2.rie21 IQuantity cc CT 2.0 z w~~~~~~~~~~ 01.8 0 (1) { | _ ,_ , _ , i , 0.06 a.ar aD 1.4 CZ1.2 > .0 a) / \ /C 0.8 0.04 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 Year FiGURE 1. INVESTMENT IN EQuiPMENT productivity change has regressed sharply and continuously since the early 1970's. The con- clusion from this exercise seems to be that once the increased productivity of the capital goods-producing sector is taken into account, the much-discussed productivity slowdown becomes all the more dramatic.2 The current study is a related to work by Charles R. Hulten ( 1992), which also stresses capital-embodied technological change as key to long-run productivity movements. Both works use Gordon's (1990) price index, which was constructed precisely to capture the increased productiv- ity in the production of new capital goods. A key distinction between the two papers, however, is the adoption of a general equi- librium approach here. In line with conven- tional growth accounting, Hulten (1992) uses an aggregate production function to de- compose output growth into technological change and changes in inputs, in particular capital accumulation. Clearly, though, a large part of capital stock growth reflects the endogenous response of capital accumula- tion to technological change. By taking a general equilibrium approach, the current analysis can go one step further: inferences can be made about how much of capital stock growth was due to investment-specific technological change versus neutral produc- tivity growth. The point that part of observed growth in capital is the result of technolog- ical change, and that growth-accounting pro- cedures should adjust for this, also has been recognized in work by Hulten (1979). Additionally, as highlighted by Hulten (1992), there is a controversy in the growth- accounting literature over whether or not GNP should be adjusted upwards to reflect "quality improvements" in new capital goods. The general equilibrium approach taken here pro- vides a decisive answer to this question: it 2 The role that investment-specific technological change plays in generating business-cycle fluctuations is addressed in Greenwood et al. (1994). 
=== PAGE 4/22 ===
344 THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW JUNE 1997 -0 15 10 E 0 4-' C1 a) V ~~~~~~~~~~~Investment -15 I I I . I I II 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 Year FIGURE 2. INVESTMENT IN EQUIPMENT-H.P. DETRENDED should not be. This finding is important since the quality adjustment significantly reduces the role ascribed to investment-specific, as op- posed to neutral, productivity change in ex- plaining U.S. output growth. The paper is organized as follows: Section I presents the model and provides a charac- terization of its balanced growth path. The model is calibrated to the National Income and Products Accounts in Section II. The contribution of investment-specifi,c techno- logical change to postwar U.S. economic growth then is assessed. Section III com- pares the current analysis with conventional growth accounting. Some pitfalls of using NIPA data to assess growth models are dis- cussed in Section IV. Based on the findings presented in Section II, some potentially in- teresting avenues for future empirical re- search on growth are suggested in Section V. In particular, some ways of endogenizing investment-specific technological change are discussed. Finally, in Section VI some concluding remarks are made. I. The Model A. The Economic Environment Consider an economy inhabited by a rep- resentative agent who maximizes the expected value of his lifetime utility as given by ( 1 ) E E, #fU(ct, lt) t=o with (2) U(c, l) = 0 ln c + (1 - 9)ln(l - 1), 0<0< 1, 
=== PAGE 5/22 ===
VOL. 87 NO. 3 GREENWOOD ET AL.: INVESTMENT-SPECIFIC TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE 345 where c and I represent consumption and labor.3 The production of final output y requires the services of labor 1, and two types of capital: equipment ke, and structures k5. Production is undertaken in accordance with (3) y = ZF(ke, k1 s 1) - zkaeks sl -ea-as 0 < ae,X asX e + a5 < 1. The variable z is a measure of total-factor, or neutral, productivity. Final output can be used for three purposes: consumption c, investment in structures is, and investment in equipment ie: (4) Y = C + ie + is. Note that the theoretical constructs are nor- malized so that both output and investment are measured in units of consumption. Structures can be produced from final out- put on a one-to-one basis. The stock of struc- tures evolves according to (S) k t= ( 1- f ) ks + is, O < 6s < 1. The story is different for equipment. The ac- cumulation equation for equipment is ex- pressed as (6) k I (1-6e)ke + ieq, 0 < 6e < . The most important aspect of this equation is the inclusion of the factor q that represents the current state of the technology for pro- ducing equipment. It determines the amount of equipment that can be purchased for one unit of output. Changes in q formalize the notion of investment-specific technological change. Assume that both q and z follow first-order Markov processes that display av- erage growth rates of Yq and YZy, respectively. Observe that investment-specific technolog- ical change is assumed to affect equip- ment only. The motivation for this is em- pirical. First, the relative price of structures appears to be stationary over time in the U.S. data, as does the structures-to-GNP ratio. Second, casual observation suggests that there is less productivity change in structures than in equipment. In equations (5) and (6), 6, and 6e represent the rates of physical depreciation on structures and equipment. Finally, there is also a government present in the economy. It levies taxes on income earned by labor and capital at the rates Tr and Tk. The revenue raised by the government in each period is rebated back to agents in the form of lump-sum transfer payments in the amount r. The government's budget constraint is (7) T - Tk (reke + r5k ) + Trwl, where re, rS, and w represent the returns for the services from equipment, structures and labor. The inclusion of income taxation in the framework is important for the quanti- tative analysis because of the significant ef- fect that it has on equilibrium capital formation. Notice that movements in q can be inter- preted in two different ways. First, 1 /q could be thought of as representing the cost of producing a new unit of equipment in terms of final output. This cost declines over time. Second, one could imagine that in each period a new vintage of equipment is produced. The productivity of a new unit of equipment is given by q, where q in- creases over time. The cost of producing a new unit of equipment is fixed over time, however, at one unit of final output. This is often labeled capital-embodied technologi- cal change. This equivalent representation of the model is presented in Appendix B. What both of these forms of technological change have in common is that they are spe- cific to the production of investment goods, which is why the term investment-specific is chosen here. Technological change makes new equipment either less expensive or better than old equipment, allowing for increased consumption. Note that investment-specific technological change requires investment in order to affect out- ' Time subscripts are omitted whenever there is no risk of ambiguity. 
=== PAGE 6/22 ===
346 THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW JUNE 1997 put, whereas neutral technological change does not. A key variable in the model is the equi- librium price for a unit of newly produced equipment, using consumption goods as the numeraire. In the framework developed, this price corresponds on the one hand to the inverse of the investment-specific tech- nology shock q. On the other, it is the direct theoretical counterpart to a relative price se- ries for new equipment that is computed us- ing a price index for quality-adjusted equipment constructed by Gordon ( 1990).' Hence, investment-specific technological change can be identified here with a rela- tive price index based on Gordon's price series. B. Competitive Equilibrium The competitive equilibrium under study will now be formulated. The aggregate state of the world is described by X = (s, z, q), where s (ke, ks). Assume that the equilib- rium wage and rental rates w, re, and rs, and individual transfer payments r all can be ex- pressed as functions of the state of the world X as follows: w = W(X), re = Re(X), rs = Rs (X), r = T(X). Finally, suppose that the two capital stocks evolve according to ke = Ke(X) and k' = Ks(X). Hence, the law of motion forsiss' = S(X)-(Ke(X),Ks(X)). The optimization problems facing house- holds and firms can now be cast. Of course, all agents take the evolution of s, as gov- erned by s' = S(s, z, q), to be exogenously given. 1. The Household. -The dynamic pro- gram problem facing the representative household is P(1) V(ke,ks;s,z,q) =imax{U(c,l) c,k,,ks,l + OE[V(ke,ks;s'z'q')]} subject to c + k'lq + k' = (1 - Tk)[Re(X)ke + Rs(X)ks] + (1 - T1)W(X)I + (1 - 6e)kelq + (1 - 6s)1ks + T(X), and s' = S(X). 2. The Firm. -The maximization problem of the firm is P(2) max7ry = ZF(ke, k,, 1) - Re()ke ke,ksjl - Rs(x)ks - W(X)l. Due to the constant retums to scale assump- tion, the firm makes zero profits in each pe- riod; i.e., max7ry = 0. 3. Definition of Equilibrium. -A competi- tive equilibrium is a set of allocation rules c = C(X), k = Ke(X), k' = KsI(X), and 1 = L(A), a set of pricing and transfer functions w = W(X), re = Re(X), rs = Rs(,), and r = T(A), and an aggregate law of motion for the capital stocks s' = S(X\) such that: (i) Households solve problem P(l), taking as given the aggregate state of the world X = (s, z, q) and the form of the func- tions W(-),Re(-),Rs(-), T( ), andS(-), with the equilibrium solution to this problem satisfying c = C(X), ke = Ke(X), k' = Ks(,), and 1 = L(X). (ii) Firms solve the problem P(2), given X and the functions Re(), Rs(-), and W( ), with the equilibrium solution to this problem satisfying ke = ke, ks = ks, and I = L(X). (iii) The economywide resource constraint (4) holds each period so that C + ie + is = ZF(ke, k5, 1), where is = k' - (1 - 6s)ks, and ie= [ke - (1 - 6e)ke]lq. 4 See Appendix A for a more detailed discussion on this. 
=== PAGE 7/22 ===
VOL. 87 NO. 3 GREENWOOD ET AL.: INVESTMENT-SPECIFIC TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE 347 C. Balanced Growth The balanced growth path for a- determin- istic version of the above model now will be characterized. In particular, suppose that z and q grow at the (gross) rates yz and Yq and let = -yz and qt = y t. Clearly, along a balanced growth path, output, consumption, investment, and the capital stocks all will grow, and the amount of labor employed will remain con- stant. It is convenient to transform the problem into one that renders all variables constant in the steady state. To find the appropriate transformation, ob- serve that the resource constraint (4) implies that output, consumption, and investment all have to grow at the same rate, say g, along a balanced growth path. Then, from the accu- mulation equation (5) for structures it follows that the stock of structures also has to grow at rate g. Equipment, however, grows faster. From (6) its growth rate ge equals g q. Fi- nally, the form of the production function (3) implies that g = yZgOegas. Thus, the following restrictions are imposed on balanced growth: (8) gy= ^>/1/(1-ae-as) ae/(l-ae-as) and g) g=>1/10-ae-a,) >(1-a,M/(-ae-a,) (9) ge=yz Yq Given a conjectured growth rate for all vari- ables, one can impose a transformation that will render them stationary. Specifically, first define St = xt/gt for xt = Yt, ct, iet, in, and k5t; second, set ket = ket/gt, qct = qt/ yt; and finally, let Z^t = zt/Yt. The household's and firm's choice problems P( 1) and P(2), along with the resource constraint (4), can be rewritten in terms of these transformed variables. A globally stable steady state exists for the trans- formed model which corresponds to an un- bounded growth path for the original model.5 It follows from the analysis above that the stock of equipment grows over time at a higher rate than output if the relative price of new equipment in terms of output, or 1 /q, is de- clining secularly. Thus, the model conforms qualitatively with the long-run observations presented in the introduction. It is also straightforward to check that the properties of the standard neoclassical growth model such as a constant steady-state real interest rate, constant capital and labor shares of income, and constant consumption- and structures-to- output ratios, are preserved here. It is interesting to observe that the rental price of a unit of equipment, zFj (ke, k5, 1) = ae(ks/ke)a(z1 /(l-ae-a.)l/ke) l-ae-as must be continually falling along a balanced growth path since both ks/ke and zI /( l -ae-as)llke are de- clining. It is straightforward to calculate that the rental price of equipment falls along a bal- anced growth path at the rate 1/ Yq - assuming that z is constant. How, then, can the real interest rate remain constant? The answer is that the cost of a unit of equipment in terms of consumption goods, or 1 /q, is also declin- ing over time at rate /I Yq. Thus, the return from investing a unit of consumption goods in equipment, or zFj (ke, ks, 1) q, remains con- stant over time. II. The Role of Investment-Specific Technological Change in Economic Growth How important quantitatively is investment- specific change for U.S. economic growth? What is the impact of other sources of tech- nological progress? By interpreting U.S. post- war data through the above framework, the contribution of these different sources of technological change can be quantitatively assessed. A. Matching the Model with the Data Care must be taken when matching up the theoretical constructs of the model with their counterparts in the U.S. data. First, the vari- ables in the model's resource constraint, namely y, c, i, and i, are matched up in that data with the corresponding nominal variables from the NIPA divided through by a common price deflator. A natural such price in this con- text is the consumption deflator of nondurable goods and nonhousing services, so as to avoid the issue of the accounting for quality im- 5 In the class of constant elasticity of substitution (CES) production functions, the Cobb-Douglas case is the only one permitting a balanced growth path. 
=== PAGE 8/22 ===
348 THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW JUNE 1997 provement in consumer durables. Hence, y, c, ie, and iS are measured in consumption units exactly as they are in the resource constraint (4). Some perils of not using this procedure are discussed in Section IV. The variable q is matched up with Gordon's (1990) equipment price index divided through by the same con- sumption deflator. Also, since only capital in the business sector is used to produce output in the model, gross housing product is netted out of GNP. Finally, total annual man-hours are used for 1. B. Calibration To proceed, values must be assigned to the following parameters: Preferences: ,8 and 0; Technology: ae, as, 6e i6s , and 'yq; and Tax rates: Tk and Tr. So as to impose a discipline on the quanti- tative analysis, the calibration procedure ad- vanced by Finn E. Kydland and Edward C. Prescott (1982) is adopted. In line with this approach, as many parameters as possible are set in advance based upon either a priori in- formation, or so that along the model's bal- anced growth path values for various economic variables assume their average val- ues for the U.S. data over the 1954-1990 period. The parameters whose values can be fixed upon a priori information are: (i) Yq = 1.032. This number corresponds to the average annual rate of decline in the relative price of equipment prices as measured by Gordon's equipment price series and the deflator for consumer non- durables and nonhousing services. (Gordon's series is available only until 1983; Appendix A discusses the exten- sion to 1990.) (ii) &s = 0.056 and 6e = 0.124. The physical depreciation rate for structures is ob- tained using Bureau of Economic Anal- ysis (BEA) capital stock data as follows. Using the accumulation equation for structures from the model and data on real investment and stocks of capital, it is possible to back out a series on the implied depreciation rates 1 - (k' - is)1 k5. The value reported above is an aver- age over the sample. Note that the mea- sures here differ from the BEA ones in that the latter use a straight-line depre- ciation method-where capital is being ''written off " in equal installments over the given life of the asset-while in the present model it is assumed that capital depreciates at a constant rate. The phys- ical depreciation rate on equipment is calculated in a similar way. (iii) Tr = 0.40. In line with work by Robert E. Lucas, Jr. (1990), the marginal tax rate on labor is set at 40 percent. Picking the effective marginal tax rate on capital income is more difficult. This is a con- troversial subject, with estimates in the literature varying wildly. For instance, for the period 1953-1979, Martin S. Feldstein et al. ( 1983 Table 4, column 1) present annual estimates of the average effective tax rate on capital income that vary from 55 percent to 85 percent. Mar- ginal tax rates presumably would be higher still. Also, for purposes of the cur- rent analysis the tax rate chosen should capture the effects of regulation or other hidden taxes that affect investment. This contentious issue is resolved here by backing out an effective marginal tax rate on capital income which results in the model conforming with certain features of the U.S. data.6 Values remain to be chosen for the param- eters (, 0, Oae, as, g, and Tk. These values are set so that the model's balanced growth path displays six features that are observed in the 6 Additionally, since 1962 there may have been some- what of a drift in effective tax rates on capital income favoring the accumulation of equipment vis-a-vis struc- tures. (This drift started with the investment tax credit for equipment introduced in that year.) This issue is abstracted from here. Could such a shift in effective tax rates on capital income be responsible for the observed rise in the equipment-to-GNP ratio? Probably not, and this for two reasons. First, the increase in the equipment-to-GNP ratio can be traced back using BEA and NIPA data to at least 1925. (The ratio was 0.33 in 1925 and 0.87 in 1992.) The drift between the effective tax rates on equipment and structures only begins in 1962. Second, a fall in the effec- tive tax rate on equipment should lead to a rise in the relative price of equipment, not the observed decline, since it should stimulate equipment demand. 
=== PAGE 9/22 ===
VOL. 87 NO. 3 GREENWOOD ET AL.: INVESTMENT-SPECIFIC TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE 349 long-run U.S. data. These features are: (i) an average annual growth rate in GNP per hour worked of 1.24 percent; (ii) an average ratio of total hours worked to nonsleeping hours of the working-age population of 24 percent; (iii) a capital's share of income of 30 percent; (iv) a ratio of investment in equipment to GNP of 7.3 percent; (v) a ratio of investment in struc- tures to GNP of 4.1 percent; and (vi) an av- erage after-tax return on capital of 7 percent. The equations characterizing balanced growth for the model are: (10) Y, = (61g)[(I - Tk)ayeylke + (1 - e (11) 1 = (/1g)[(1 Tk)a ylk ? (1 - b) (12) e/-(ke /)[ gYq(1 6e)1 (13) 19 (kJ1)g - ( 1 - (14) (1 - T1)(1 -- - aj) X 0(1-i) I I ( - 0)(8 1) and (15) C/9Y / + i1' + is l / 1 . Equations (10) and ( 11 ) are the Euler equa- tions for equipment and structures. The next two equations, (12) and (13), define the cor- responding investment-to-output ratios., The efficiency condition for labor is given by ( 14). Finally, ( 15) is the resource constraint. The long-run restrictions from the data described above imply the following additional six equations: (16) g = 1.0124, (17) 1 = 0.24, (18) ae + a, = 0.30, (19) iely = 0.073, (20) 1/ = 0.041, and (21) /3lg = 1/1.07. Note that ( 10) - (21 ) represent a system of 12 equations in 12 unknowns, namely, keI9 kJI9, i/9, ijy 1, 6/Y, g, 0, ae, a, Tk, and /. The parameter values obtained are 0 = 0.40, ae = 0.17, a, = 0.13, T* = 0.42, and: = 0.95.7 The 42-percent effective tax rate on gross cap- ital income implies a rate on net capital income lying within the range reported by the Feldstein et al. (1983) study. C. Procedure A key objective of the analysis in this sec- tion is to quantify the contribution to economic growth from investment-specific technological progress. The general strategy is to use data on equipment prices as a measure of investment- specific technological change. Hence, a direct observation on q is available. This series, and other data, then are used to impute a series on neutral, or residual, productivity progress by interpreting the postwar experience through the model outlined above. More precisely, given time-series data on y, k,, ke, and 1, a time series on neutral techno- logical change z can be constructed using the aggregate production function (3). The key step in this calculation is to obtain a series for 7 The values for a, and a, are close to those found by Gerard Dumenil and Dominique Levy (1990) who esti- mated aggregate production functions incorporating equipment, structures, and labor over a 100-year period. They found that a Cobb-Douglas production function with time-varying coefficients fits the data best. For the sub- period under study here the estimated coefficients did not vary much, and consequently the Cobb-Douglas produc- tion function with constant coefficients is an accurate approximation. 
=== PAGE 10/22 ===
350 THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW JUNE 1997 the equipment stock using the law of motion for equipment (6): ke = (1 - 6e)ke + ieq. Starting from an initial value, the series for ke is constructed by iterating on this equation using the data on ie and q described above in Section II, subsection A. The starting value for ke was set at its balanced growth level, given the values of y and q at the beginning of the sample.8 Finally, given estimates for 'y and Y e, the balanced growth formula for the growth rate of output, equation (8), is used to calculate the long-run implications of each of the two forms of technological change. D. The Results The data analysis focuses on two related questions. First, does the postwar picture of total-factor productivity growth change when an explicit treatment of investment-specific technological progress is incorporated into the analysis? Second, how much of long-run growth is accounted for by investment-specific technological change? Figure 3 plots the q and the computed z se- ries. Two observations are immediate. First, z does not display a strong long-run trend. The average annual growth in neutral productivity change is 0.39 percent. By comparison, the growth rate in investment-specific productiv- ity is 3.21 percent. The second, and most noticeable, feature of Figure 3 is the dramatic downturn in total fac- tor productivity which began in the seventies and continued without interruption until the end of the sample. Two factors in the current analysis contribute to this phenomenon. First, note that investment-specific technological change was high when total-factor productiv- ity growth was low; i.e., growth in the q series accelerated at the same time as there was a slowdown in the z series. Thus, when changes in q are explicitly accounted for, the slowdown in z tends to be more pronounced. Second, equipment plays an important role, quantita- tively, in the analysis. Specifically, had the current analysis treated equipment and struc- tures equally in production, as is implicitly done in conventional analyses where these two capital stock are simply aggregated together, the magnitude of the downturn would not be as large. The importance of properly incorporating capital into growth accounting can be illus- trated as follows. Suppose that output is pro- duced using only labor according to the constant returns to scale production function y = zpl. Here the Solow residual, zp, corresponds to average labor productivity, y/l, as conven- tionally measured, which grew at 1.24 percent per year over the postwar period. Figure 4 plots zp. Observe that productivity growth slows down in the 1970's, but remains posi- tive. Next, consider the standard one-sector growth model. Here output is produced ac- cording toy = zikal l-a where k represents the standard measure of the combined stocks of equipment and structures. Now, the rate of dis- embodied technological change is 0.71 percent per year on average. Figure 4 also plots this standard measure of the Solow residual, or z1 = yl(kal l-a) . The productivity slowdown is now more apparent. Now, disaggregate the capital stock into equipment and structures and as- sume the aggregate production function is given by y = Z2kkaekslae a* If one assumes that the BEA measures of equipment and structures are correct, then the Solow residual grew at 0.68 percent annually (see Figure 4). Finally, if the stock of equipment is adjusted in line with Gordon's data for investment- specific technological change, the growth rate in z = yI[kaekas l-la-as] drops to 0.39 per- cent. The difference between the BEA mea- sure for the stock of equipment and the measure constructed here, which better reflects the growth in the stock of equipment, is shown in Figure 5. The productivity slowdown, as captured by Figure 4, becomes dramatic.9 8 An alternative is to use the standard measure for the equipment stock in 1954, which yields very similar results for the measurement of z. 9 Accounting for changes in labor quality, though, along the lines suggested by Dale W. Jorgenson et al. (1987) does not explain the behavior of z. This index in labor quality shows a slowdown starting in the late 1960's: from an average yearly growth of 0.7 percent during the 
=== PAGE 11/22 ===
VOL. 87 NO. 3 GREENWOOD ET AL: INVESTMENT-SPECIFIC TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE 351 1.3 1.2 1.4 1.0 1.3 ID0.9\'\ 20.8 -#- 0) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.2~ C) E 0.7 z (D0.6 0.4 0.3 1.0 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 Year FIGURE 3. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE Using formula (8) and the average growth rates for q and z, 3.21 and 0.39, respectively, one can obtain estimates of the contributions that the two sources of productivity change made to growth in output per hour worked. These estimates are approximations, given that (8) refers to balanced growth while the tech- nology growth rates are sample averages. The actual average growth rate of output per hour over the 1954-1990 sample period is 1.24 per- cent per year. With only investment-specific technological change at work [i.e., assume y, = 1 in (8)], output per hour would have grown at 0.77 percent per year. The corresponding figure for neutral technological change is 0.56 percent. Hence, investment-specific techno- logical change contributes about 58 percent of all output growth, with neutral change provid- ing the rest.'" III. Growth Accounting with Investment-Specific Technological Change: A Review How should investment-specific (or capital- embodied) technological change be modeled? As Hulten ( 1992) has highlighted, two distinct accounting frameworks have been used to study this form of technological change. The first was developed by Robert M. Solow (1960), and is similar to the approach taken here. The second approach, which has domi- nated the practice of growth accounting (e.g., 1954-1968 period, the series' growth rate drops to 0.25 percent between 1968-1989. When the labor input mea- sure is adjusted to incorporate the Jorgenson et al. ( 1987) labor quality index, the pattern of z remains the same. Although the average growth of the residual now is close to zero, there is still a sharp rise prior to the earlier 1970's followed by unabated productivity regress. ? Note that adding up the contributions of the two shocks yields a growth rate in output per hour of 1.34 percent. The difference between this number and the ac- tual observed figure of 1.24 percent is due to the balanced growth approximation. 
=== PAGE 12/22 ===
352 THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW JUNE 1997 1 4 1.3 a1.2 CZ 1.1 1.0 /- ,--. ~' .- '-.-------= - 1 -/ - ?0.9 .-.- -.- 7 0 8~~~~~~ QL 0.7 Z z 0.6 0.5 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 Year FIGURE 4. PRODUCTIVITY MEASURES see Gordon [1990]), is due to Evsey D. Domar (1963) and Jorgenson (1966). Using the notation developed above, both frame- works express the law of motion for equip- ment as (22) ke = (1 -e)ke + ieq. In both frameworks be represents the physical depreciation on capital." The models differ in the way they express the resource constraint. In line with the current analysis, the resource constraint for the Solow model reads (23) C + ie zF(ke, 1), where for simplicity structures have been dropped from the analysis. The resource con- straint for the Domar-Jorgenson model ap- pears as (24) c + ieq = zF(ke, 1). Thus, the sole difference between the two models is the inclusion of q in the resource constraint. Which model, then, is better suited to ana- lyze the long-run effects of investment- specific technological change? The analysis conducted below suggests that both theory and data speak clearly in favor of the approach taken here. A. Theory When embedded into a fully specified general equilibrium setting, the Domar- " This importance of this assumption (Hulten [1992] p. 965) is highlighted in Appendix B. See also footnote 12. 
=== PAGE 18/22 ===
358 THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW JUNE 1997 TABLE 1-MATCHING THE DATA WITHOUT INVESTMENT-SPECIFIC TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE: IMPLIED PARAMETER VALUES Difference in capital-share parameters across sectors Maximum labor share Total Equipment Structures in equipment sector fe + /3s) (ae+ aJ) Pe ae /s -has max(1 -3e -3.s) 0.10 0.94 -0.84 0.06 0.35 0.80 -0.45 0.20 0.65 0.63 0.02 0.35 0.90 0.49 0.41 0.10 Recall that for the postwar period, gp = 1/1.029 (Gordon, 1954-1983) and g = 1.0164, which implies ln gp/ln g -1.76. Hence, in order to generate the observed de- cline in the price of equipment relative to the increase in income, the shares of equipment and structures must be very different across the two sectors. This is shown in Table 1, which illustrates various combinations of (/3e + /36) - (ae + as), (jOe - ae), and (,, - aj) that are consistent with equation (29). This table also shows the upper bound on labor share in the equipment sector that is consistent with these combinations-see the column labeled max(1 - /e - 8j. The prospect for explaining the relative price decline with a two-sector model based on differences in share parameters looks bleak, given the implausibly large differences re- quired in the structure of production across sectors. It requires: (i) that the equipment- producing sector is more capital intensive than the other sector, and (ii) that labor's share of income is very low in the equipment sector. In sharp contrast, Andreas Hornstein and Jack Praschnik (1994) and Gregory W. Huffman and Mark A. Wynne (1995) report labor shares in capital goods production of about 0.70 and somewhat lower capital shares in capital goods production than in production of noncapital goods. B. Human Capital Accumulation Consider now a version of the above two- sector economy with two types of labor: namely, skilled and unskilled. Let unskilled agents work in Sector One and skilled agents in Sector Two. Skilled agents can upgrade their human capital according to the law of motion hi = H(e2)h2, with H' > 0 and H" < 0, where h2 represents a skilled agent's stock of human capital in the current period and e2 de- notes the time he devotes to human capital for- mation. Let the resource constraint for the equipment-producing sector read (30) ie = ZA2k2 k2 ( h212 ) I - e- , where 12 denotes the amount of raw skilled la- bor used in equipment production. As skilled agents make investments in human capital, the production of equipment will be undertaken ever more efficiently. Observe that (30) can be rendered equivalent to (25) by setting q = h2-e-,I, It is easy to see that such a frame- work will be similar in many respects to the one used in the quantitative analysis. C. Investment-Specific Externalities Another set of endogenous growth models has emphasized productive externalities (see, for example, Paul M. Romer's [1986] classic paper). Again, within a two-sector frame- work, suppose that the consumption sector is the same as the above model but that =e = E22e 2s 2 with 0 < fe, 3s, 3e + /3s < 1, where E is an aggregate externality. This ex- ternality could take various forms and be 
=== PAGE 19/22 ===
VOL. 87 NO. 3 GREENWOOD ET AL.: INVESTMENT-SPECIFIC TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE 359 given various interpretations. One specific formulation would set Et (I E t-siet-s)p with E lt_s = 1; i.e., productivity in the in- vestment sector is a weighted average of past production in the sector. This formulation can be motivated by learning-by-doing ar- guments. It is easy to show that this formu- lation can give rise to a declining relative price of equipment along a balanced growth path when z grows at a constant rate. If z does not grow, the model is consistent with long-run growth if p is large enough. Balanced growth, with a declining rela- tive price of equipment, can then occur if (I - f3e - p)( I - a5) = /3sae (assuming in line with reality that 0 < ae as5 ae + as < 1). D. Research and Development A more direct way of modeling growth in investment-specific technology is based on R&D. In such a model, decisions to expend resources in order to develop new types of equipment would be made at the level of pri- vate firms. Most of the existing R&D models employ setups with monopolistic competi- tion (that build upon Romer [1987 ] ). Hence, there would be a range of different types of equipment, each associated with a producer who makes a product-specific R&D deci- sion. In this setup, new products are not priced at marginal cost, and therefore rela- tive price movements may also capture movements in markups. Therefore, this could make the identification of the rate of relative price decline with the rate of investment-specific technological change more problematic. More specifically, suppose evermore- efficient equipment can be made through time, and that R&D decisions at each point in time involve deciding how much more efficient to make the next generation of equipment. If equipment of type i is associated with a pro- ductivity level q(i), the latter can be specified to evolve recursively as: q'(i) = H(q(i), q, n(i)). Here, q- is the average technology level across equipment types (this formulation hence allows for externalities in R&D), and n ( i) is the amount of labor resources currently used in R&D for type-i equipment good. Under certain assumptions on H, a monopolistic competition version of this framework leads to a balanced growth path with constant percentage markups that is isomorphic (at the aggregate level) to the one analyzed in Section I, subsection C (see Krusell [1992]). A calibrated balanced growth version of this model therefore would find the same rate of investment-specific technological change as found in this paper. VI. Conclusions The analysis in this paper was motivated by two key observations. First, over the long run the relative price of equipment has declined re- markably while the equipment-to-GNP ratio has risen. This suggests that investment-specific technological change may be a factor in eco- nomic growth. Second, the short-run data dis- play a negative correlation between the price for equipment on the one hand, and equipment in- vestment or GNP on the other. This also hints that investment-specific change may be a source of economic fluctuations. A simple vintage capital model was con- structed here that has the property that the equipment-to-GNP ratio increases over time as the relative price of new capital goods de- clines. The standard features of the neoclassi- cal growth model were otherwise preserved. The balanced growth path for the framework under study was calibrated to the long-run U.S. data. A growth-accounting exercise was then conducted with the model. It was found that approximately 60 percent of postwar productivity growth can be attributed to investment-specific technological change. This result may indicate where the highest re- turn on future theorizing about engines of growth lies. Also, a more striking picture emerges of the much-discussed productivity slowdown that started in the 1970's. Once the recent rapid technological improvement in the production of new capital goods is taken into account, the decline in the productivity of other factors is dramatic. These findings point to a very specific and potentially important source of economic growth. Although the analysis was undertaken within the context of 
=== PAGE 20/22 ===
360 THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW JUNE 1997 a simple framework where investment-specific technological change arose exogenously, some suggestions were made for making this concept endogenous. Taking these more elab- orate models, which allow for human capital formation, endogenous R&D, monopolistic competition, etc., to data should constitute an important robustness test on the findings ob- tained here. APPENDix A: DATA Sample: 1954-1990. The empirical counterparts of the theoretical variables used in the data calculations are the following: y -nominal GNP net of gross housing product divided by the implicit price deflator for nondurable consumption goods and non- housing services, base year 1987. c-nominal consumption expenditure on nondurables and nonhousing services di- vided by their implicit price deflator, base year 1987. 4-nominal investment in producer- durable equipment (PDE) divided by the implicit price deflator for nondurable con- sumption goods and nonhousing services, base year 1987. iS-nominal investment in producer struc- tures in 1987 dollars. i-total investment in 1987 dollars. Thus, I = ie + is. ks-net stock of producer structures in 1987 dollars. ke-net stock of equipment in 1987 dollars. This series was generated using the procedure outlined in Section II. I-total hours employed per week, House- hold Survey data. q-implicit price deflator for nondurable consumption goods and nonhousing services divided by Gordon's ( 1990 Ch. 12, Table 12.4) index of nominal prices for PDE. Since Gordon's index is only computed through 1983, a correction of the NIPA measures for PDE was used for the remainder of the sample.20 Notes to Appendix A 1. To avoid the index number problems as- sociated with accounting for technological progress in the equipment-producing sector, standard constant-price output and equipment data cannot be used in this framework for the variables y and i. These theoretical constructs should be matched with quantities expressed in terms of their cost in consumption units. Correspondingly, y and ie were computed by deflating nominal GNP and equipment invest- ment by the consumption deflator. For struc- tures this problem is less severe, but for consistency the same procedure was followed. 2. The physical depreciation rates 6e and 6E were computed using BEA constant-price data on both equipment and structures. BEA equip- ment figures were used to compute the geo- metric depreciation rates used for the model that correspond to straight-line rates. APPENDIX B: MORE ON MATCHiNG MODELS WITH THE DATA Consider the following transformed version of the model developed in Section III. (Bi) ~C + le =-'kell-le, (Bl1) - k 1 -e (B2) ke (1 e)ke + ie, where e =1- eq (B3) I1-lie = - 1-e)(q-l1q), 20 The estimates for the parameters were obtained us- ing data for the sample period 1954 to 1990. Gordon's price index was used for the 1954-1983 subperiod and a correction of NIPA price measures for the 1984-1990 subperiod. The corfection to the NIPA measures involved adjusting downwards the growth rates for the indexes in the PDE categories by 1.5 percent. An exception was the computers category, which already incorporates the qual- ity adjustment used in Gordon ( 1990). Moreover, the new index for 1984-1990 was constructed by taking an aver- age of the implicit PDE price deflator (IPD) and the fixed- weight price index (PPI) for PDE. This average reflects the desire to replicate the more elaborate Tornquist index used in Gordon (1990). This adjustment to the NIPA numbers was suggested to the authors by Gordon. 
=== PAGE 21/22 ===
VOL. 87 NO. 3 GREENWOOD ET AL.: INVESTMENT-SPECIFIC TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE 361 and Z = z(q1I)(t. Equations (Bi ) and (B2) appear as the con- ventional neoclassical growth model with neu- tral technological change. There is one important modification. Observe that the cap- ital stock is now measured (at market value) in terms of consumption. The relative price of capital is always one.21 Under this measure- ment scheme, a unit of new capital can be interpreted as being q1q_ times more produc- tive than a unit of old capital. Therefore, when new capital comes on line, the market value of the old capital stock is reduced by a factor of qllq. Hence, be represents the rate of eco- nomic, as opposed to physical, 6e, deprecia- tion. This is an important distinction between this model and the conventional neoclassical growth model. In a world with investment- specific technological change, the rate of eco- nomic depreciation will exceed the rate of physical depreciation due to the fact that this form of technological change obsoletes the old capital stock.22 For example, imagine a world where q has remained forever constant in value and where the physical depreciation rate on capital is 10 percent. Now, suppose q sud- denly doubles, in a once-and-for-all manner, due to the invention of a new, more produc- tive, type of capital good. What happens to the worth of old capital? After production in the current period, only 90 percent of the old cap- ital stock will remain due to physical depre- ciation. But its market will value has also now fallen, in a once-and-for-all fashion, by 50 per- cent due to introduction of new capital goods. Thus, the old capital stock will be worth 45 percent (=90 percent x 50 percent) of its old value. Therefore, the combined effect of phys- ical depreciation and obsolescence has been to reduce the market value of the old capital stock by 55 percent (=100 percent - 45 percent), which is the rate of economic depreciation. In the period where the investment-specific tech- nological change occurred, the rate of eco- nomic depreciation exceeds the physical one by 45 percentage points. Last, the classic Solow (1960) paper showed how a simple vintage capital model, where new and im- proved capital goods come on line each period, could be aggregated into the standard neoclas- sical model. He, too, made a distinction be- tween economic and physical depreciation.23 Clearly, either framework could be used for growth accounting. In a world with perfect data they would yield exactly the same results. The framework adopted in the text connects directly with Gordon's measurement of dura- ble goods prices. That is, qlq_ can be iden- tified from Gordon's prices series, p, using the relationship q = lip. Using the framework presented in Appendix A, the rate of investment-specific technological change could be measured by examining the wedge between the (gross) rates of economic and physical depreciation, or from the relationship qlq-l = (1 - 6e)I( 1 -- be). Similarly, as with the formulation used in the text, this frame- work speaks a word of caution for conven- tional growth accounting, which normalizes the relative price of capital to be one: failure to distinguish between economic and physical depreciation will cause investment-specific technological change to appear as neutral tech- nological change. REFERENCES Domar, Evsey D. "Total Productivity alnd the Quality of Capital." Journal of Political Economy, December 1963, 71(6), pp. 586- 88. Dume'nil, Gerard and Levy Dominique. "Conti- nuity and Ruptures in the Process of Technological Change." Unpublished man- uscript, CEPREMAP, 1990. Feldstein, Martin S.; Dicks-Mireaux, Louis and Poterba, James. "The Effective Tax Rate and the Pretax Rate of Return." Journal of Public Economics, July 1983, 21(2), pp. 129-58. 2' This stands in contrast to the framework presented in the text where a new unit of capital could be purchased for I Iq units consumption. 22 From (Bl), (B2), and (B3) it is clear that in order to realize the benefits from an increase in q_, to q there must be positive gross investment, i,. 23 It is interesting to compare (B 1) and (B2) with his (11). 
=== PAGE 22/22 ===
362 THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW JUNE 1997 Gordon, Robert J. The measurement of durable goods prices. Chicago: University of Chi- cago Press, 1990. Greenwood, Jeremy; Hercowitz, Zvi and Krusell, Per. "Macroeconomic Implications of Investment-Specific Technological Change." Working Paper No. 6-94, Sackler Institute of Economic Studies, Tel Aviv University, 1994. Hornstein, Andreas and Praschnik, Jack. "Intermediate Inputs and Sectoral Co- movement in the Business Cycle." Un- published manuscript, University of Western Ontario, 1994. Huffman, Gregory W. and Wynne, Mark A. "The Role of Intratemporal Adjustment Costs in a Multi-Sector Economy." Unpublished man- uscript, Southern Methodist University, 1995. Hulten, Charles R. "Growth Accounting with Intermediate Inputs." Review of Eco- nomic Studies, October 1978, 45(3), pp. 511-18. . "On the 'Importance' of Productivity Change." American Economic Review, March 1979, 69(1), pp. 126-36. . "Growth Accounting When Techni- cal Change Is Embodied in Capital." Amer- ican Economic Review, September 1992, 82(4), pp. 964-80. Jones, Larry E. and Manuelli, Rodolfo E. "A Convex Model of Equilibrium Growth: Theory and Policy Implications." Journal of Political Economy, October 1990, 98(5), pp. 1008-38. ._ "The Sources of Economic Growth." Journal of Economic Dynamics and Con- trol, January 1997, 21(1), pp. 75-114. Jorgenson, Dale W. "The Embodiment Hypoth- esis." Journal of Political Economy, Feb- ruary 1966, 74(1), pp. 1-17. Jorgenson, Dale W.; Gollop, Frank M. and Fraumeni, Barbara M. Productivity and U.S. Economic Growth. Amsterdam-New York: North-Holland, 1987. Krusell, Per. "Dynamic, Firm-Specific Increas- ing Returns, and the Long-Run Performance of Growing Economies." Unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, University of Minnesota, 1992. Kydland, Finn E. and Prescott, Edward C. "Time to Build and Aggregate Fluctuations." Econometrica, November 1982, 50(6), pp. 1345-70. Lucas, Robert E., Jr. "Supply-Side Economics: An Analytical Review." Oxford Economic Papers, April 1990, 42(2), pp. 293-316. Rebelo, Sergio J. "Long-Run Policy Analysis and Long-Run Growth." Journal of Polit- ical Economy, June 1991, 99(3), pp. 500- 21. Romer, Paul M. "Increasing Returns and Long-Run Growth." Journal of Political Economy, October 1986, 94(5), pp. 1002-37. . "Growth Based on Increasing Re- turns Due to Specialization." American Economic Review, May 1987 (Papers and Proceedings), 77(2), pp. 56-62. Solow, Robert M. "Investment and Technolog- ical Progress," in Kenneth J. Arrow, Samuel Karlin, and Patrick Suppes, eds., Mathematical methods in the social sci- ences 1959. Stanford, CA: Stanford Uni- versity Press, 1960, pp. 89- 104. 