
=== PAGE 1/59 ===
NBER WORKING PAPER SERIES A PREFERRED-HABITAT MODEL OF THE TERM STRUCTURE OF INTEREST RATES Dimitri Vayanos Jean-Luc Vila Working Paper 15487 http://www.nber.org/papers/w15487 NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH 1050 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 November 2009 We thank Markus Brunnermeier, Andrea Buraschi, Pierre Collin-Dufresne, Peter DeMarzo, Giorgio Fossi, Ken Garbade, Robin Greenwood, Moyeen Islam, Arvind Krishnamurthy, Jun Liu, Vasant Naik, Anna Pavlova, Jeremy Stein, seminar participants at the Bank of England, Chicago Fed, ECB, LSE, Manchester, New York Fed, Tilburg, Toulouse, UCLA, and participants at the American Finance Association 2008, Adam Smith Asset Pricing 2007, Brazilian Finance Association 2008, Chicago 2008, CRETE 2008, Gerzensee 2007, Imperial 2007, NBER Asset Pricing 2007, and SITE 2006 conferences for helpful comments. We have especially benefited from an extensive set of insightful comments by John Cochrane, and from a communication by Xavier Gabaix on linearity-generating processes. Financial support from the Paul Woolley Centre at the LSE is gratefully acknowledged. The views expressed in this paper are those of the authors and not of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, any of its affiliates, or the National Bureau of Economic Research. NBER working papers are circulated for discussion and comment purposes. They have not been peer- reviewed or been subject to the review by the NBER Board of Directors that accompanies official NBER publications. © 2009 by Dimitri Vayanos and Jean-Luc Vila. All rights reserved. Short sections of text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided that full credit, including © notice, is given to the source. 
=== PAGE 2/59 ===
A Preferred-Habitat Model of the Term Structure of Interest Rates Dimitri Vayanos and Jean-Luc Vila NBER Working Paper No. 15487 November 2009 JEL No. E4,E5,G1 ABSTRACT We model the term structure of interest rates as resulting from the interaction between investor clienteles with preferences for specific maturities and risk-averse arbitrageurs. Because arbitrageurs are risk averse, shocks to clienteles' demand for bonds affect the term structure---and constitute an additional determinant of bond prices to current and expected future short rates. At the same time, because arbitrageurs render the term structure arbitrage-free, demand effects satisfy no-arbitrage restrictions and can be quite different from the underlying shocks. We show that the preferred-habitat view of the term structure generates a rich set of implications for bond risk premia, the effects of demand shocks and of shocks to short-rate expectations, the economic role of carry trades, and the transmission of monetary policy. Dimitri Vayanos Department of Finance, A350 London School of Economics Houghton Street London WC2A 2AE UNITED KINGDOM and CEPR and also NBER d.vayanos@lse.ac.uk Jean-Luc Vila Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ United Kingdom Jean-Luc.Vila@baml.com
=== PAGE 3/59 ===
1 Introduction What determines the interest rate for a given maturity? Stan dard economic theory links the in- terest rate for a maturity T to the willingness of a representative agent to substitute c onsumption between times 0 and T . This model of interest-rate determination contrasts shar ply with a more informal preferred-habitat view, proposed by Culbertson ( 1957) and Modigliani and Sutch (1966), and popular among practitioners. According to that view, th ere are investor clienteles with pref- erences for speciﬁc maturities, and the interest rate for a g iven maturity is inﬂuenced by demand and supply shocks local to that maturity. 1 The preferred-habitat view is supported by numerous market episodes. One example is the 2000-2002 buyback program by the US Treasury. In January 200 0, the Treasury announced its intention to buy back long-term bonds through a series of rev erse auctions. 2 Within three weeks of this announcement, yields on thirty-year bonds had dropped by 58bps (hundredths of one percent), a price increase larger than ten percent. Moreover, the eﬀec t was conﬁned to long maturities: yields on ﬁve-year bonds dropped by only 9bps, while yields o n two-year bonds rose by 9bps. These eﬀects are hard to rationalize within a representativ e-agent model: one would have to argue that the buyback program signalled a signiﬁcant drop in aggr egate consumption in thirty years. On the other hand, the eﬀects are consistent with the preferr ed-habitat view since the buyback program was a supply shock local to long maturities. Even though the preferred-habitat view is relevant in pract ice and has been proposed more than half a century ago, it has not entered into the academic mains tream; it has typically been conﬁned to a short discussion in MBA-level textbooks. This might be p artly because of the absence of a formal model, and partly because of an impression that prefe rred habitat can conﬂict with the logic of no-arbitrage. Indeed, an extreme version of the preferre d-habitat view is that the interest rate for a given maturity evolves independently of nearby maturi ties. This conﬂicts with no-arbitrage, as pointed out by Cox, Ingersoll and Ross (1985). In this paper, we build a formal model of preferred habitat. W e assume that the term structure 1The typical clientele for bonds with maturities longer than ﬁfteen years are pension funds, seeking to hedge their long-term pension liabilities. Life-insurance companies are typically located around the ﬁfteen-year mark, while as set managers and banks’ treasury departments are the typical cl ientele for bonds with maturities shorter than ten years. 2The objective of the buyback program was to shorten the avera ge maturity of government debt, which had increased during the late 1990s because of the budget surplu ses. (Expiring bond issues were not being replaced, and most of them were short term.) The buyback program was conduc ted through 45 reverse auctions between March 2000 and April 2002. The maturities of the targeted issues ra nged from 10 to 27 years, and an average of 14% of each targeted issue was bought back. For accounts of this episode , see Garbade and Rutherford (2007) and Greenwood and Vayanos (2009b). The latter paper discusses additional episodes supporting the preferred-habitat view: the 2004 pension reform in the UK and the 2008-2009 quantitative easi ng by the Federal Reserve. 1
=== PAGE 4/59 ===
of interest rates is determined through the interaction bet ween investor clienteles with preferences for speciﬁc maturities and risk-averse arbitrageurs. Arbi trageurs integrate maturity markets, ensur- ing that bonds with nearby maturities trade at similar price s and the term structure is arbitrage-free. But because arbitrageurs are risk averse, the demand shocks of clienteles aﬀect the term structure. Understanding how demand eﬀects manifest themselves in the cross-section of maturities, and in a way consistent with no-arbitrage, is central to our analysi s. We show that demand eﬀects can be quite diﬀerent from the underlying shocks, in ways that depe nd on arbitrageur risk aversion and the underlying risk factors. Besides addressing the eﬀects of demand shocks, our model generates a rich set of implications for bond risk premia, the eﬀects of shocks to short-rate expectations, the economic role of carry trades, and the transmission of monet ary policy. Our model, described in Section 2, is set in continuous time. The short rate follows an exoge- nous mean-reverting process, and interest rates for longer maturities are determined endogenously through trading between investors and arbitrageurs. 3 Investors constitute clienteles with pref- erences for speciﬁc maturities. We assume that preferences take an extreme form, whereby the clientele for a given maturity demands only the zero-coupon bond with the same maturity. 4 Thus, in the absence of arbitrageurs, the term structure would exh ibit extreme segmentation: the interest rate for a given maturity would be inﬂuenced only by the deman d of the corresponding clientele, and would evolve independently of other maturities. Of cour se, such segmentation does not occur in equilibrium because of arbitrageurs. We assume that arbi trageurs can invest in all maturities, and maximize a mean-variance objective over instantaneous changes in wealth. Our assumptions on investors and arbitrageurs ensure that the model has a tra ctable structure, with equilibrium interest rates being aﬃne in the state variables. Section 3 considers the case where clientele demands are con stant over time. In the absence of arbitrageurs, the term structure would also be constant, an d disconnected from the time-varying short rate. Arbitrageurs bridge this disconnect, incorpor ating information about current and future short rates into bond prices. Suppose, for example, that the short rate increases, thus becoming attractive relative to investing in bonds. Because investo rs do not venture away from their maturity habitats, they do not take advantage of this opportunity. Ar bitrageurs, however, do take advantage by shorting bonds and investing at the short rate. Through th is carry (“roll-up”) trade, bond prices drop and yields rise. 5 Conversely, a negative shock that lowers the short rate indu ces arbitrageurs 3The short rate concerns borrowing and lending over an inﬁnit esimal maturity. The assumption of an exogenous short rate is common in the literature, e.g., Vasicek (1977) . See also Cox, Ingersoll and Ross (1985), who derive the short rate from the exogenous return of a risky technology pr oducing output over an inﬁnitesimal maturity. 4We tie clientele demands to optimizing behavior in Appendix B, in a setting where overlapping generations of investors consume at the end of their life and are inﬁnitely r isk averse. 5Carry trades are trades that are proﬁtable if the market envi ronment does not change. For example, shorting 2
=== PAGE 5/59 ===
to borrow at the short rate and buy bonds. Through this carry ( “roll-down”) trade, bond prices rise and yields drop. In both cases, the carry trades of arbit rageurs provide the mechanism through which bond yields move to reﬂect changes in current and expec ted future short rates. Since carry trades are risky, they must oﬀer positive expect ed returns to attract risk-averse arbitrageurs. This has implications for bond risk premia. W hen the short rate is high, arbitrageurs short bonds and invest at the short rate. Therefore, bonds ea rn negative premia, oﬀering lower expected returns than the short rate. Conversely, premia ar e positive when the short rate is low because arbitrageurs borrow at the short rate and buy bonds. Our model thus oﬀers an explanation for the puzzling ﬁnding of Fama and Bliss (1987) that bond ris k premia switch sign from positive during times when the term structure slopes up to negative wh en it slopes down. Our analysis has implications for the transmission of monet ary policy. Suppose that the Central Bank conducts monetary policy through the short rate. Since the eﬀects of this policy are propa- gated along the term structure through the carry trades of ar bitrageurs, the extent of propagation depends on arbitrageur risk aversion. When, for example, ri sk aversion is high (e.g., arbitrageurs are under-capitalized), propagation is limited and forwar d rates under-react severely to changes in expected short rates. Note that in acting as conduits of mone tary policy, arbitrageurs reap rewards in the form of positive expected returns from their carry tra des. Thus, monetary policy transfers wealth to arbitrageurs in expected terms. For example, a pol icy that keeps the short rate low transfers wealth to arbitrageurs through positive bond ris k premia. 6 Section 4 considers the case where clientele demands are dri ven by one common mean-reverting factor. Bond yields are then driven by two risk factors: shor t rate and demand. We allow the demand factor to take a general form, e.g., it can be a local sh ock that impacts only the clientele for a speciﬁc maturity, or a global shock that impacts all cli enteles. One would expect that the price eﬀects of local shocks are not fully local because they are transmitted to nearby maturities by arbitrageurs. But to what extent is transmission eﬀectiv e? And more broadly, how does the location of demand shocks in the maturity space relate to the ir eﬀect on the term structure? When arbitrageur risk aversion is low, the location of deman d shocks matters only for the overall magnitude of their eﬀect but not for the eﬀect’s relative imp ortance across maturities. Compare, for example, a decrease in demand of the twenty-year cliente le to the same shock to the ﬁve-year clientele. The twenty-year shock has a larger eﬀect on the te rm structure because arbitrageurs bonds and investing at the short rate is proﬁtable if the shor t rate remains high. This trade is commonly referred to as roll-up because it is a bet that the short rate will remain h igh, in which case bond yields will roll up to that high value as bonds mature. 6We are grateful to John Cochrane for suggesting this idea in h is discussion of our work (Cochrane (2008)). 3
=== PAGE 6/59 ===
must be induced to buy twenty-year bonds, which are more sens itive to short-rate risk. Yet, both shocks have the same relative eﬀect across maturities: if, f or example, the twenty-year shock has its largest eﬀect on the ﬁfteen-year yield, the same is true f or the ﬁve-year shock. The intuition is that when arbitrageur risk aversion is low, the short rate is the dominant risk factor, and demand shocks aﬀect the term structure by altering the market price of short-rate risk. Bonds most heavily aﬀected by the shocks are those most sensitive to changes in t he market price of short-rate risk, a characteristic which is independent of the shocks’ locatio n. Our model reﬁnes and qualiﬁes the logic of limited arbitrage . Consistent with that logic, we ﬁnd that demand shocks aﬀect prices because arbitrageurs’ r isk tolerance is limited. Yet, even with limited risk tolerance, arbitrageurs are able to elimi nate riskfree arbitrage opportunities. As a consequence, arbitrage—even limited—imposes tight restr ictions on how demand shocks aﬀect the cross-section of bonds: the eﬀects must be through the facto r prices of risk. When arbitrageur risk aversion is low, the restrictions are particularly tight be cause the short rate is eﬀectively the only risk factor. When instead arbitrageurs are concerned with m ultiple risk factors, the restrictions become looser, and demand eﬀects acquire a preferred-habit at ﬂavor. Indeed, when arbitrageur risk aversion is high, and so arbitrageurs are concerned with bot h the short-rate and the demand factor, demand shocks located at longer maturities generate eﬀects that are largest at longer maturities. Moreover, when additional demand factors are introduced, i n an extension sketched in Section 5, the eﬀects of local demand shocks tend to become more local. Our emphasis in this paper is mainly qualitative: use the clo sed-form solutions to understand key intuitions and comparative statics. We conclude this pa per in Section 6 by arguing that an equally rich set of implications could be derived on the quan titative front. In particular, structural estimation of the model could render it a valuable policy too l for addressing questions such as how purchases of bonds by the Central Bank, or issuance by the Tre asury, can aﬀect the term structure. Our model is uniquely able to address such questions because of its focus on demand and supply shocks. A number of recent papers seek to explain the positive relati onship between bond risk premia and the slope of the term structure. In Wachter (2006), Buras chi and Jiltsov (2007) and Lettau and Wachter (2009), a representative agent has habit formation , and periods of low consumption are associated with high short rates and bond risk premia. The ti me-variation in premia generates a positive relationship with slope, but in contrast to our mod el premia are always positive. In Gabaix (2009), time-variation in premia arises because of the time -varying severity of rare disasters facing a representative agent. In Xiong and Yan (2009), two agents h old heterogeneous beliefs about the 4
=== PAGE 7/59 ===
time-varying mean of the short rate. When agents are overly o ptimistic about the mean, they undervalue the bonds, and this leads an econometrician who i nfers the mean correctly to observe positive premia and positive slope. While we do not dispute t he relevance of habit formation, rare disasters, and heterogeneous beliefs for asset pricin g, we believe that in episodes such as the Treasury buyback, changes in risk premia were generated by an entirely diﬀerent mechanism. Considering this mechanism yields a new set of intuitions an d predictions. A recent literature explores the empirical implications of preferred habitat, as well as the implications for bond issuance. Krishnamurthy and Vissing -Jorgensen (2008) ﬁnd a strong neg- ative correlation between credit spreads and the debt-to-g dp ratio, and argue that this reﬂects a downward-sloping demand for government bonds. Greenwood a nd Vayanos (2009a) ﬁnd that the average maturity of government debt predicts positively ex cess bond returns, a result they also derive theoretically in an extension of our model. Guibaud, Nosbusch and Vayanos (2009) show that catering to maturity clienteles is an optimal issuance policy: a welfare-maximizing government issues more long-term debt when the fraction of long- relati ve to short-horizon investors increases. Greenwood, Hanson and Stein (2009) ﬁnd that corporations en gage in gap-ﬁlling behavior, issuing long-term debt at times when the supply of long-term governm ent debt is small. 7 Finally, our work is related to papers studying the pricing o f multiple assets within a class when arbitrage is limited. In Barberis and Shleifer (2003), arbi trageurs absorb demand shocks of investors with preferences for speciﬁc asset styles. These shocks gen erate comovement of assets within a style. In Pavlova and Rigobon (2008), style arises because of portf olio constraints, and can be the source of international ﬁnancial contagion. 8 In Greenwood (2005), risk-averse arbitrageurs absorb dema nd shocks of index investors. A demand shock for one stock aﬀect s other stocks through the covariance with the arbitrageurs’ portfolio, a property conﬁrmed empi rically using data on index redeﬁnitions. 9 In Gabaix, Krishnamurthy and Vigneron (2007), the marginal holders of mortgage-backed securities are risk-averse arbitrageurs, whose wealth is tied to a mort gage portfolio rather than to economy- wide wealth. Consistent with this idea, pre-payment risk is found to be priced according to the covariance with the mortgage portfolio. In Garleanu, Peder sen and Poteshman (2009), the marginal traders in the options market are risk-averse market makers who absorb demand shocks of other investors. This yields implications for how demand shocks s hould aﬀect the cross-section of options, which are conﬁrmed empirically using measures of demand pre ssure. 7See also Bakshi and Chen (1996) who derive preferred habitat s from trading frictions, and Telmer and Zin (1996) who link preferred habitats to investor portfolio holdings . 8Kyle and Xiong (2001) derive contagion from the wealth eﬀect s of arbitrageurs with logarithmic preferences, and Gromb and Vayanos (2002,2009) derive contagion from arbitr ageurs’ margin constraints. 9Hau (2009) extends this analysis by introducing unsophisti cated liquidity suppliers alongside the arbitrageurs. 5
=== PAGE 8/59 ===
2 Model Time is continuous and goes from zero to inﬁnity. The term str ucture at time t consists of a continuum of zero-coupon bonds in zero supply. The maturiti es of the bonds are in the interval (0, T ], and the bond with maturity τ pays $1 at time t + τ . We denote by Pt,τ the time- t price of the bond with maturity τ , by Rt,τ the spot rate for that maturity, and by ft,τ − ∆τ,τ the forward rate between maturities τ − ∆τ and τ . The spot rate is related to the price through Rt,τ = − log(Pt,τ ) τ , (1) and the forward rate through ft,τ − ∆τ,τ = − log ( Pt,τ Pt,τ − ∆τ ) ∆τ . (2) The short rate rt is the limit of Rt,τ when τ goes to zero. We take rt as exogenous and assume that it follows the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process drt = κ r(r − rt)dt + σ rdBr,t , (3) where ( r, κ r, σ r) are positive constants and Br,t is a Brownian motion. The short rate rt could be determined by the Central Bank and the macro-economic envir onment, but we do not model these mechanisms. Our focus instead is on how exogenous movements in rt inﬂuence the bond prices Pτ,t that are endogenously determined in equilibrium. Agents are of two types: preferred-habitat investors and ar bitrageurs. Preferred-habitat in- vestors constitute maturity clienteles, with the clientel e for maturity τ demanding the bond with the same maturity. We assume that the demand for the bond with maturity τ , expressed in time t dollars, is an increasing and linear function of the bond’s y ield Rt,τ , i.e., yt,τ = α (τ )τ (Rt,τ − β t,τ ). (4) We impose no restrictions on the function α (τ ) except that it is positive. If preferred-habitat investors were the only market partic ipants, then the term structure would exhibit extreme segmentation: the yield for a given maturit y would be inﬂuenced only by the demand of the corresponding clientele, and would evolve ind ependently of other maturities. Given the demand (4) and bonds’ zero supply, the equilibrium yield for maturity τ would be Rt,τ = β t,τ . 6
=== PAGE 9/59 ===
Of course, such segmentation does not occur in equilibrium b ecause of arbitrageurs. Arbitrageurs integrate maturity markets, ensuring that bonds with nearb y maturities trade at similar prices and the term structure is arbitrage-free. In Appendix B we show that optimizing behavior yields the dem and (4) with the slight dif- ference that (4) concerns units of the bond rather than time t dollars.10 We assume that there are overlapping generations of investors, who consume at th e end of their life and are inﬁnitely risk averse. Inﬁnite risk aversion ensures that investors d emand only the bond that matures at the end of their life. 11 Therefore, each generation constitutes a clientele for a sp eciﬁc maturity. We additionally assume that investors can save for consumptio n either through bonds or through a private technology that is an imperfect substitute. This en sures that demand is elastic in the yield Rt,τ , with β t,τ being the return on the private technology. Assuming that preferred-habitat investors demand only the bond corresponding to their ma- turity habitat is, of course, extreme. This assumption, how ever, renders the analysis manageable, while not detracting from our main focus which is how limited arbitrage can integrate segmented maturity markets. Indeed, if preferred-habitat investors could move away from their maturity habitat, they would do so when other bonds oﬀer more attracti ve returns. Therefore, they would contribute to the integration of markets, which in our model is done solely by arbitrageurs. This would enlarge the set of arbitrageurs without aﬀecting the q ualitative features of our analysis. At the same time, the analysis would become more complicated be cause the portfolio of each maturity clientele would consist of a continuum of bonds rather than a single bond. While we preclude preferred-habitat investors from substi tuting across maturities, we allow them to substitute outside the bond market through the priva te technology. This type of substi- tution is important for some aspects of our analysis. At a fun damental level, our analysis centers around how limited arbitrage can integrate segmented matur ity markets. These segmented markets can clear (at the yield β t,τ ) only if the demand of preferred-habitat investors is elast ic in the yield of the bond corresponding to their maturity habitat. Allowi ng for substitution outside the bond 10Since the demand expressed in dollars is derived from that in units by multiplying by the bond price, the dollar demand derived in Appendix B has the form (4) but with α (τ ) depending on t. We assume that the demand (4) concerns dollars rather than units because when combining w ith an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck short-rate process, we ﬁnd equilibrium spot rates that are aﬃne in the state variables. In Appendix B we present a modiﬁcation of our model where optimizing behavior by preferred-habitat investors yields a demand expressed in units that has the form (4) except that it is linear and decreasing in the bond price rath er than linear and increasing in the bond yield. When combining with a short-rate process that belongs to the clas s of Gabaix’s (2009) linearity-generating processes, we ﬁnd equilibrium bond prices that are aﬃne in the state variab les. 11More precisely, investors demand a riskless payoﬀ at the end of their life. They can achieve this payoﬀ by holding either the bond that matures at the end of their life or a repli cating portfolio. If the term structure is arbitrage-free, as is the case in equilibrium, the replicating portfolio cos ts the same as the bond. Therefore, investors are indiﬀerent between the two, and we assume that they hold the bond. 7
=== PAGE 10/59 ===
market generates this elasticity. In later sections we show that elastic demand underlies some of our main results, e.g., the eﬀects of local demand shocks can be tied to the shocks’ location, and bond risk premia switch sign according to the slope of the ter m structure. 12 13 We assume that the intercept β t,τ in the demand (4) takes the form β t,τ = β + K∑ k=1 θ k(τ )β k,t , (5) where β is a constant, {β k,t }k=1,..,K are demand risk factors and {θ k(τ )}k=1,..,K are functions charac- terizing how each factor would impact the cross-section of m aturities in the absence of arbitrageurs. For example, when θ k(τ ) is independent of τ , a change in β k,t would impact all maturities equally and cause a parallel shift in the term structure. When instea d θ k(τ ) is single-peaked around a speciﬁc maturity, a change in β k,t would impact that maturity the most, and can be interpreted a s a local demand shock. We impose no restrictions on the functi ons {θ k(τ )}k=1,..,K . The demand factors can be given a number of interpretations. In Appendix B we interpret them as returns on investments outside the bond market, e.g. , real estate. Demand factors could alternatively be interpreted as changes in the hedging need s of preferred-habitat investors (arising because of, e.g., changes in pension funds’ liabilities or r egulation), changes in the size or com- position of the preferred-habitat investor pool, or change s in the supply of bonds issued by the government. We assume that the demand factor β k,t follows the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process dβ k,t = −κ β,k β k,t dt + σ β,k dBβ,k,t , (6) where ( κ β,k , σ β,k ) are positive constants and Bβ,k,t is a Brownian motion independent of Br,t and Bβ,k ′,t for k′̸= k.14 12Footnotes 15 and 23 explain why these results follow from ela stic demand. 13Substitution by preferred-habitat investors towards non- bond investments is relevant in practice. Consider, for example, the 2004 pension reform in the UK, which required pe nsion funds to evaluate their long-term pension liabilities using market long rates. To hedge against chang es in long rates, pension funds tilted their portfolios towards long-term bonds, and this drove long rates to record low levels. The drop in long rates induced pension funds to substitute towards both shorter-maturity bonds and non- bond investments. The non-bond investments included real estate: for example, Marks & Spencer arranged for their pension fund to receive payments based on the leases of their property portfolio. For accounts of the UK pension ref orm and its eﬀect on the term structure, see the Barclays Capital reports by Tzucker and Islam (2005) and Islam (2007) , as well as Greenwood and Vayanos (2009b). The Marks & Spencer deal is mentioned in Islam (2007), p.61. Tzuc ker and Islam (2005), p.10, emphasize the elasticity of pension-fund demand for long-term bonds: ... The market experience has been that pension funds and oth er “real money” investors will be buyers of real yields on an outright basis when yields are higher tha n 1.50-1.60%. It is salutary to note that this “bid-only” level was 2.20-2.40% in the earlier half of t his decade... In our model, the buy threshold corresponds to the intercept β t,τ in the demand (4). Note that this threshold is time-varying, and changed because of the pension reform. 14Allowing demand factors to be correlated with each other and with the short rate complicates the formulas without aﬀecting the main results. See the discussion at the end of Section 4. 8
=== PAGE 11/59 ===
Arbitrageurs choose a bond portfolio to trade oﬀ instantane ous mean and variance. Denoting their time- t wealth by Wt and their dollar investment in the bond with maturity τ by xt,τ , their budget constraint is dWt = ( Wt − ∫ T 0 xt,τ ) rtdt + ∫ T 0 xt,τ dPt,τ Pt,τ . (7) The arbitrageurs’ optimization problem is max {xt,τ }τ ∈ (0,T ] [ Et(dWt) − a 2 V art(dWt) ] , (8) where a is a risk-aversion coeﬃcient, characterizing the trade-oﬀ between mean and variance. Because arbitrageurs render the term structure arbitrage- free, they eliminate riskfree arbitrage opportunities. Therefore, their positions in equilibrium involve risk, and their returns derive from the premium associated to that risk rather than from riskfre e arbitrage opportunities. This describes most of term-structure arbitrage, done by, e.g., hedge fund s and proprietary-trading desks. We endow arbitrageurs with preferences over instantaneous mean and variance for analytical convenience. One interpretation of these preferences is th at there are overlapping generations of arbitrageurs, each living for an inﬁnitesimal time interva l. Intertemporal optimization of long-lived arbitrageurs with logarithmic utility would also give rise to preferences over instantaneous mean and variance, but the risk-aversion coeﬃcient a would depend on wealth. In taking a to be constant, we suppress wealth eﬀects. We appeal informally to wealth eﬀ ects, however, when drawing some of the model’s empirical implications. 3 One-Factor Model This section studies the case where there are no demand facto rs ( K = 0). The only risk factor is the short rate rt, and the term structure is described by a one-factor model. T he one-factor model yields some of our main results, while being analytically ve ry simple. 3.1 Equilibrium We conjecture that equilibrium spot rates are aﬃne in rt, i.e., Pt,τ = e− [Ar(τ )rt+C(τ )] (9) 9
=== PAGE 12/59 ===
for two functions Ar(τ ), C (τ ) that depend on maturity τ . Applying Ito’s Lemma to (9) and using the dynamics (3) of rt, we ﬁnd that the instantaneous return on the bond with maturi ty τ is dPt,τ Pt,τ = µt,τ dt − Ar(τ )σ rdBr,t , (10) where µt,τ ≡ A′ r (τ )rt + C ′(τ ) − Ar(τ )κ r(r − rt) + 1 2 Ar(τ )2σ 2 r (11) is the instantaneous expected return. Substituting (10) in to the arbitrageurs’ budget constraint (7), we can solve the arbitrageurs’ optimization problem (8 ). Lemma 1. The arbitrageurs’ ﬁrst-order condition is µt,τ − rt = Ar(τ )λ r,t , (12) where λ r,t ≡ aσ 2 r ∫ T 0 xt,τ Ar(τ )dτ. (13) Eq. (12) requires that a bond’s expected excess return µt,τ − rt is proportional to the bond’s sensitivity Ar(τ ) to the short rate. The proportionality coeﬃcient λ r,t (which is the same for all bonds) is the market price of short-rate risk. Eq. (12) follo ws solely from the absence of arbitrage, without imposing any of the additional structure of our mode l. Indeed, since the short rate is the only risk factor, a bond’s risk is fully characterized by the sensitivity to the short rate. Absence of arbitrage requires that expected excess return per unit o f risk is the same for all bonds. The common value of this ratio is the market price of short-rate r isk λ r,t . While absence of arbitrage requires that risk is priced cons istently across bonds, it imposes essentially no restrictions on the common price of risk λ r,t . We determine λ r,t using the additional structure of our model, namely, the speciﬁcation of preferr ed-habitat investors and arbitrageurs. The main economic insights coming out of our model can be trac ed to properties of λ r,t (and of the market price of demand risk in later sections). Since (12) is the arbitrageurs’ ﬁrst-order condition, λ r,t is the expected excess return that arbi- trageurs require as compensation for taking a marginal unit of risk. This yields the characterization 10
=== PAGE 55/59 ===
constant σ 2 r . The two requirements cannot be met simultaneously if Nr,t is a Brownian motion, but can be met by introducing a jump component alongside the Brow nian component. 30 We set u(CT ) = gCT − 1 2 C 2 T for CT ≤ g and u(CT ) = g2/ 2 for CT > g , where g is a positive constant. Proposition B.1 implies that at time t the investor holds g − e(β +η t)(T − t)Pt,T − t (B.11) units of the bond that matures at time T .31 Therefore, the average demand across the generational cohort is for yt,T − t = g − f (T − t)Pt,T − t (B.12) units of the bond, where f (τ ) ≡ eβτ + 1 2 Σ2 η τ 2 and Σ 2 η is the intra-generational variance of η t. We take Σ2 η to be constant over time and equal to its steady-state value. We conjecture that equilibrium bond prices are aﬃne in rt, i.e., Pt,τ = C(τ ) − Ar(τ )rt, (B.13) for two functions Ar(τ ), C (τ ) that depend on maturity τ . Eqs. (B.10) and (B.13) yield the following counterpart of (10): dPt,τ = µt,τ dt − Ar(τ )dNr,t , (B.14) where µt,τ ≡ − [ C ′(τ ) − A′ r (τ )rt ] − Ar(τ )(κ r + r − rt)(r − rt). (B.15) We write the arbitrageurs’ budget constraint in terms of bon d units rather than dollar invest- ment. Denoting by xt,τ the units of bond with maturity τ held by arbitrageurs at time t, the budget constraint is dWt = ( Wt − ∫ T 0 xt,τ Pt,τ ) rtdt + ∫ T 0 xt,τ dPt,τ . 30We are grateful to Xavier Gabaix for providing to us the proce ss Nr,t . The construction of Nr,t is available upon request. 31Proposition B.1 can be generalized to accommodate linearit y-generating processes and jump components. Eq. (B.11) assumes that Pt,T − t > 0, which is the case in equilibrium because of no-arbitrage a nd bonds’ positive payoﬀ. 53
=== PAGE 56/59 ===
The arbitrageurs’ ﬁrst-order condition is µt,τ − rtPt,τ = Ar(τ )λ r,t , (B.16) where λ r,t is given by (13). Setting xt,τ = −yt,τ in (13), we can write λ r,t as λ r,t = −aσ 2 r ∫ T 0 yt,τ Ar(τ )dτ = aσ 2 r ∫ T 0 [f (τ ) [C(τ ) − Ar(τ )rt] − g] Ar(τ )dτ, (B.17) where the second step follows from (B.12) and (B.13). Substi tuting µt,τ from (B.15) and λ r,t from (B.17) into (B.16), we ﬁnd − [ C ′(τ ) − A′ r (τ )rt ] − Ar(τ )(κ r + r − rt)(r − rt) − rt [C(τ ) − Ar(τ )rt] = Ar(τ )aσ 2 r ∫ T 0 [f (τ ) [C(τ ) − Ar(τ )rt] − g] Ar(τ )dτ. (B.18) Eq. (B.18) is aﬃne in rt. Setting linear terms in rt and constant terms to zero yields two linear diﬀerential equations in Ar(τ ), C (τ ). 54
=== PAGE 57/59 ===
References Bakshi, G. and Z. Chen, 1996, “Market Frictions and the Preferred Habitat Theory of the Term Structure of Interest Rates,” working paper, University of Maryland. Barberis, N. and A. Shleifer, 2003, “Style Investing,” Journal of Financial Economics, 68, 161-199. Buraschi, A. and A. Jiltsov, 2007, “Habit Formation and Macroeconomic Models of the Term Structure of Interest Rates,” Journal of Finance , 62, 3009-3063. Campbell, J. and R. Shiller, 1991, “Yield Spreads and Interest Rate Movements: A Bird’s E ye View,” Review of Economic Studies, 58, 495-514. Chan, K., G. Karolyi, F. Longstaﬀ, and A. Sanders, 1992, “An Empirical Comparison of Alternative Models of the Short-Term Interest Rate,” Journal of Finance, 47, 1209-1227. Cheridito, P . and X. Gabaix, 2008, “Regularity Conditions to Ensure the Existence of Lin earity- Generating Processes,” working paper, Princeton Universi ty. Cochrane, J., 2008, “Comments on ‘Bond Supply and Excess Bond Returns’ by R obin Green- wood and Dimitri Vayanos,” working paper, University of Chi cago. Cochrane, J. and M. Piazzesi, 2005, “Bond Risk Premia,” American Economic Review, 95, 138-160. Cox, J., J. Ingersoll, and S. Ross, 1985, “A Theory of the Term Structure of Interest Rates,” Econometrica, 53, 385-408. Culbertson, J., 1957, “The Term Structure of Interest Rates,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, 71, 485-517. Dai, Q. and K. Singleton, 2002, “ Expectations Puzzles, Time-Varying Risk Premia, an d Aﬃne Models of the Term Structure,” Journal of Financial Economics, 63, 415-441. Duﬀee, G., 2002, “Term Premia and Interest Rate Forecasts in Aﬃne Model s,” Journal of Fi- nance, 57, 405-443. F ama, E. and R. Bliss, 1987, “The Information in Long-Maturity Forward Rates,” American Economic Review, 77, 680-692. Gabaix, X., 2009, “Variable Rare Disasters: An Exactly Solved Framewor k for Ten Puzzles in Macro-Finance,” working paper, New York University. 55
=== PAGE 58/59 ===
Gabaix, X., 2009, “Linearity-Generating Processes: A Modelling Tool Y ielding Closed Forms for Asset Prices,” working paper, New York University. Gabaix, X., A. Krishnamurthy , and O. Vigneron, 2007, “Limits of Arbitrage: Theory and Evidence from the Mortgage Backed Securities Market,” Journal of Finance, 62, 557-596. Garbade, K. and M. Rutherford, 2007, “Buybacks in Treasury Cash and Debt Management,” Staﬀ Report 304, Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Garleanu, N., L. Pedersen, and A. Poteshman, 2009, “Demand-Based Option Pricing,” Re- view of Financial Studies, forthcoming. Greenwood, R., 2005, “Short- and Long-term Demand Curves for Stocks: Theor y and Evidence on the Dynamics of Arbitrage,” Journal of Financial Economics, 75, 607-649. Greenwood, R., S. Hanson, and J. Stein, 2009, “A Gap-Filling Theory of Corporate Debt Maturity Choice,” Journal of Finance, forthcoming. Greenwood, R. and D. V ayanos, 2009a, “Bond Supply and Excess Bond Returns,” working paper, Harvard University. Greenwood, R. and D. V ayanos, 2009b, “Price Pressure in the Bond Market,” working paper, Harvard University. Gromb, D. and D. V ayanos, 2002, “Equilibrium and Welfare in Markets with Financially Con- strained Arbitrageurs,” Journal of Financial Economics, 66, 361-407. Gromb, D. and D. V ayanos, 2009, “Financially Constrained Arbitrage and Cross-Marke t Con- tagion,” working paper, INSEAD. Guibaud, S., Y. Nosbusch, and D. V ayanos, 2009, “Preferred Habitat and the Optimal Ma- turity Structure of Government Debt,” working paper, Londo n School of Economics. Hau, H., 2009, “Global versus Local Asset Pricing: Evidence from Arb itrage of the MSCI Index Change,” working paper, INSEAD. Islam, M., 2007, “The State that I am in...,” Barclays Capital, Equity G ilt Study 2007, 52-63. Krishnamurthy , A. and A. Vissing-Jorgensen, 2008, “The Aggregate Demand for Treasury Debt,” working paper, Northwestern University. Kyle, A., and W. Xiong, 2001, “Contagion as a Wealth Eﬀect of Financial Intermediar ies,” Journal of Finance 56, 1401-1440. 56
=== PAGE 59/59 ===
Litterman, R. and J. Scheinkman, 1991, “Common Factors Aﬀecting Bond Returns,” Journal of Fixed Income, 1, 54-61. Modigliani, F. and R. Sutch, 1966, “Innovations in Interest-Rate Policy,” American Economic Review, 56, 178-197. Pavlova, A. and R. Rigobon, 2008, “The Role of Portfolio Constraints in the Internation al Propagation of Shocks,” Review of Economic Studies, 75, 1215-1256. Pradhan, A., 2009, “Forward Steepeners Still Oﬀer Value,” Barclays Capi tal, Global Rates Strat- egy, 5 June, 2-6. T elmer, C. and S. Zin, 1996, “The Yield Curve: Terms of Endearment or Terms of Endow - ment?,” working paper, Carnegie-Mellon University. Tzucker, R. and M. Islam, 2005, “A Pension Reform Primer,” Barclays Capital, Fixed In come Rates Strategy. V asicek, O., 1977, “An Equilibrium Characterization of the Term Structu re,” Journal of Finan- cial Economics, 5, 177-188. W achter, J., 2006, “A Consumption-Based Model of the Term Structure of In terest Rates,” Jour- nal of Financial Economics, 79, 365-399. Xiong, W. and H. Y an, 2009, “Heterogeneous Expectations and Bond Markets,” Review of Fi- nancial Studies, forthcoming. 57