
=== PAGE 1/61 ===
NBER WORKING PAPER SERIES A MODEL OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM Emmanuel Farhi Matteo Maggiori Working Paper 22295 http://www.nber.org/papers/w22295 NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH 1050 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 May 2016 We thank Pol Antras, Julien Bengui, Guillermo Calvo, Dick Cooper, Ana Fostel, Jeffry Frieden, Mark Gertler, Gita Gopinath, Pierre-Olivier Gourinchas, Veronica Guerrieri, Guido Lorenzoni, Arnaud Mehl, Brent Neiman, Jaromir Nosal, Maurice Obstfeld, Jonathan Ostry, Helene Rey, Kenneth Rogoff, Jesse Schreger, Andrei Shleifer, Jeremy Stein, and seminar participants at the NBER (IFM, MEFM, EFMB), University of California Berkeley, University of Chicago Booth, Yale University, Boston College, Boston University, Stanford GSB, MIT Sloan, LSE, LBS, Oxford University, Imperial College, PSE Conference of Sovereign Risk, Harvard University, CREI-Pompeu Fabra, Brown University, Yale Cowles Conference on General Equilibrium Theory, Einaudi Institute, Toulouse School of Economics, University of Virginia, University of Lausanne, IEES, IMF, ECB, BIS, Boston Fed, ECB-Fed biennial joint conference, Minnesota workshop in macroeconomic theory, Wharton conference on liquidity, Bank of Italy, Boston Fed, Bank of Canada annual conference, Hydra conference, SED, Econometric Society, Chicago Booth junior conference in international macro-finance, CSEF-IGIER Symposium on Economics and Institutions. We thank Michael Reher for excellent research assistance. Maggiori gratefully acknowledges the financial support of the NSF (1424690), and Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University. The views expressed herein are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Bureau of Economic Research. NBER working papers are circulated for discussion and comment purposes. They have not been peer-reviewed or been subject to the review by the NBER Board of Directors that accompanies official NBER publications. © 2016 by Emmanuel Farhi and Matteo Maggiori. All rights reserved. Short sections of text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided that full credit, including © notice, is given to the source.
=== PAGE 2/61 ===
A Model of the International Monetary System Emmanuel Farhi and Matteo Maggiori NBER Working Paper No. 22295 May 2016 , Revised December 2016 JEL No. E12,E42,E43,E44,E52,E61,F02,F31,F32,F33,F34,F36,F38,F42,F44,F53,F55,G11,G12, G15,G18,G21,G23, G28,H12,H63,H87,N1,N10,N11,N12,N13,N14,N2,N20,N21,N22,N23,N24 ABSTRACT We propose a simple model of the international monetary system. We study the world supply and demand for reserve assets denominated in different currencies under a variety of scenarios: a Hegemon vs. a multipolar world; abundant vs. scarce reserve assets; a gold exchange standard vs. a floating rate system. We rationalize the Triffin dilemma, which posits the fundamental instability of the system, as well as the common prediction regarding the natural and beneficial emergence of a multipolar world, the Nurkse warning that a multipolar world is more unstable than a Hegemon world, and the Keynesian argument that a scarcity of reserve assets under a gold standard or at the zero lower bound is recessionary. Our analysis is both positive and normative. Emmanuel Farhi Harvard University Department of Economics Littauer Center Cambridge, MA 02138 and NBER emmanuel.farhi@gmail.com Matteo Maggiori Department of Economics Harvard University Littauer building 1805 Cambridge Street Cambridge, MA, 02138 and NBER maggiori@fas.harvard.edu
=== PAGE 3/61 ===
1 Introduction Throughout history, the International Monetary System (IMS) has gone through radical transformations that have shaped global economic outcomes. It has been the constant focus of world powers, has fos- tered innumerable international policy initiatives, and has captured the imagination of some of the best economic minds. Yet it remains an elusive topic with little or no intellectual organizing framework. A manifestation of this fuzziness is that, even among economists, there is no consensus regarding the deﬁn- ing features of the IMS. We consider the IMS as the collection of three key attributes: (i) the supply of and demand for reserve assets; (ii) the exchange rate regime; and (iii) international monetary institutions. A major contribution of our paper is to show how the modern theoretical apparata developed to analyze sovereign debt crises, oligopolistic competition, and Keynesian macroeconomics, can be combined to build a theoretical equi- librium framework of the IMS. 1 Our framework provides a rich set of new insights. It also allows us to match the historical evidence, to make sense of the leading historical debates, and to demonstrate their current relevance. The key ingredients of the model are as follows. World demand for reserve assets arises from the presence of international investors in the Rest of the World (RoW) with mean-variance preferences. Risky assets are in elastic supply, but safe (reserve) assets are supplied by either one (monopoly Hegemon world) or a few (oligopoly multipolar world) risk-neutral reserve countries under Cournot competition. Reserve countries issue reserve assets that are denominated in their respective currencies and have limited commitment. Ex-post, in bad states of the world, they face a trade-off between on the one hand devaluing their currencies and inﬂating away the debt to limit real repayments, and on the other hand incurring the resulting “default cost”; ex-ante, they issue debt before interest rates are determined. This allows for the possibility of self-fulﬁlling conﬁdence crises à la Calvo (1988). The model is both ﬂexible and modular. It allows us to incorporate a number of important additional features: nominal rigidities under either a gold-exchange standard or a system of ﬂoating exchange rates, liquidity preferences and network effects, ﬁscal capacity, currency of pricing, endogenous reputation, and private issuance. The model is solvable with pencil and paper and delivers closed-form solutions. We begin our analysis with the case of a monopoly Hegemon issuer. The IMS consists of three suc- cessive zones that correspond to increasing levels of issuance: a Safety zone, an Instability zone, and a Collapse zone. In the Safety zone, the Hegemon never devalues its currency, irrespective of investor expectations. In the Instability zone, the Hegemon only devalues its currency when it is confronted with unfavorable investor expectations. Finally, in the Collapse zone, the Hegemon always devalues its cur- rency, once again irrespective of investor expectations. In this setting, the Hegemon obtains monopoly rents in the form of a positive endogenous safety pre- mium on reserve assets. The trade-off between maximizing monopoly rents and minimizing risk confronts 1A non-exhaustive list of the relevant sovereign default literature, following Eaton and Gersovitz (1981), includes contribu- tions to the study of self-fulﬁlling debt crises (Calvo (1988), Cole and Kehoe (2000), Aguiar et al. (2016)), and of contagion (Lizarazo (2009), Arellano and Bai (2013), Azzimonti, De Francisco and Quadrini (2014), Azzimonti and Quadrini (2016)). 1
=== PAGE 4/61 ===
the Hegemon with a stark choice: restrict its issuance or expand it at the cost of risking a conﬁdence crisis. We show that this dilemma is exacerbated in situations in which the global demand for reserves outstrips the safe debt capacity of the Hegemon. In addition to its positive predictions, the model also lends itself to a normative analysis. Contrary to the intuition that the monopoly distortion present in our model should lead to under-issuance, we show that the Hegemon may either under- or over-issue from a social welfare perspective. We trace this surprising result to the fact that the Hegemon’s decisions involve not only the traditional quantity dimension, but also an additional risk dimension: by issuing more and taking the risk of a conﬁdence crisis, the Hegemon fails to internalize the risk of destroying the infra-marginal surplus of the rest of the world. This infra-marginal surplus is higher, and hence over-issuance is more likely to obtain, the more convex the demand curve for reserve assets. We draw an analogy with the classic monopoly theory of quality developed by Spence (1975) in a context in which quality is related to quantity via an endogenous equilibrium mapping. These results rationalize the famous Trifﬁn dilemma (Trifﬁn (1961)). In 1959, Trifﬁn exposed the fundamental instability of the Bretton Woods system and predicted its collapse; he foresaw that the U.S., confronted with a growing foreign demand for reserve assets from the rest of the world, would eventually stretch itself so much as to become vulnerable to a conﬁdence crisis that would force a devaluation of the Dollar. Indeed, time proved Trifﬁn right. Faced with a full-blown run on the Dollar, the Nixon ad- ministration ﬁrst devalued the Dollar against gold in 1971 (the “Nixon shock”) and ultimately abandoned convertibility and let the Dollar ﬂoat in 1973. Despres, Kindleberger and Salant (1966) dismissed Trifﬁn’s concerns about the stability of the U.S. international position by providing a “minority view”, according to which the U.S. acted as a “world banker” providing ﬁnancial intermediation services to the rest of the world: the U.S. external balance sheet was therefore naturally composed of safe liquid liabilities and risky illiquid assets. They considered this form of intermediation to be natural and stable. Our model offers a bridge between the Trifﬁn and minority views: while our model shares the latter’s “world banker” view of the Hegemon, it emphasizes that banking is a fragile activity that is subject to self- fulﬁlling runs during episodes of investor panic. Importantly, the runs in our model pose a much greater challenge than runs on private banks à la Diamond and Dybvig (1983), as there is no natural Lender of Last Resort (LoLR) with a sufﬁcient ﬁscal capacity to support a Hegemon of the size of the U.S. Our theoretical foundations allow us to be much more precise than this earlier informal literature was. The model identiﬁes the relevant indicator of the underlying fragility as the gross external debt position of the Hegemon, and not its net position, as sometimes hinted at by Trifﬁn. It allows us to clarify how the problem is in part external, as originally emphasized by Trifﬁn, and also in part ﬁscal as recently conjectured by Farhi, Gourinchas and Rey (2011) and Obstfeld (2011). It also enables us to make predictions regarding the factors that are likely to accentuate the dilemma, and to identify possible remedies. We show that the deeper logic that underlies the Trifﬁn dilemma extends well beyond this particular historical episode. Indeed, it can be used to understand how the expansion of Britain’s reserves ultimately 2
=== PAGE 5/61 ===
led to a conﬁdence crisis on Sterling — partly due to France’s attempts to liquidate its sterling reserves — which resulted in the devaluation of Sterling in 1931 and forced the U.K. off the gold-exchange standard. Similarly, the U.S., the other meaningful issuer of reserve assets at the time, faced a conﬁdence shock following Britain’s devaluation, and ultimately also had to devalue in 1933 (see Figure1 Panel (c)). Figure 1 Panel (a) illustrates the creation, expansion, and demise of the gold-exchange standard of the 1920s: monetary reserve assets expanded as a percentage of total reserves from 28% in 1924 to 42% in 1928, but then shrank to 8% by 1932. Our model shows that the core of the Trifﬁn logic transcends the particulars of exchange rate regimes. It does not rely on the gold-exchange standard, and it is relevant to the current system of ﬂoating exchange rates, because reserve assets embed the implicit promise that the corresponding reserve currencies will not be devalued in times of crisis. The model cautions that the high demand for reserves in the post-Asian- crisis global-imbalances era may activate the Trifﬁn margin. Indeed,Gourinchas and Rey (2007a,b) have documented that the U.S. activities as a world banker are today performed on a much grander scale than when originally debated in the 1960s. 2 In other words, the “bank” has gotten bigger and so have the fragility concerns emphasized by our model. The U.S. external debt, which currently stands at 158% of GDP and of which 85% is denominated in dollars, heightens the possibility of a Trifﬁn-like event. A number of economists have warned against a possible sudden loss of conﬁdence in the Dollar: perhaps most prominently, Obstfeld and Rogoff (2001, 2007) have argued that the likely future reversal of the U.S. current account would lead to a 30% depreciation of the Dollar. Our model uncovers an important interaction between the Trifﬁn logic and the exchange rate regime. To understand this interaction, we introduce nominal rigidities, gold, and study a gold-exchange stan- dard. We model gold as a reserve asset and the gold-exchange standard as a monetary policy regime that maintains a constant nominal price of gold in all currencies. The gold parity completely determines the stance of monetary policy (the interest rate), thus leaving no room for domestic macroeconomic stabi- lization: a lower price of gold is associated with tight-money (a higher interest rate). Fluctuations in the demand/supply of reserve assets affect the “natural” interest rate (the real interest rate consistent with full employment). Since the nominal interest rate cannot adjust, this results in ﬂuctuations in output. Reces- sions occur when reserve assets are “scarce”, i.e. when there is excess demand for reserve assets at full employment and at prevailing world interest rates. The structure of the IMS can therefore catalyze the sort of recessionary forces emphasized by Keynes (1923). Keynes argued not only that the world should not return to a gold standard, in order to free up monetary policy for domestic stabilization, but also that, if the world were to return to a gold standard, it should not do so at pre-WWI parities because the ensuing tight money policy would be recessionary. These arguments were not successful in the short run, and by the time of the Genoa conference in 1922 the world was largely back on a tight gold standard. The conference, however, recognized the reserve-scarcity 2A recent theoretical literature has predominantly focused on the asymmetric risk sharing between the U.S. and RoW (Bernanke (2005), Gourinchas and Rey (2007a),Caballero, Farhi and Gourinchas(2008), Caballero and Krishnamurthy(2009), Mendoza, Quadrini and Rıos-Rull (2009), Gourinchas, Govillot and Rey (2011), Maggiori (2012)). 3
=== PAGE 6/61 ===
argument and attempted to solve it by expanding the role of monetary assets as reserves in addition to gold (see Figure 1 Panel (a)), thereby giving rise to a gold-exchange standard. We show that the Trifﬁn dilemma is particularly acute under a gold-exchange standard. Indeed in such a regime, the Hegemon faces a perfectly elastic demand curve which increases its incentives to issue. However, the Hegemon’s issuance capacity might not be sufﬁcient to prevent a world recession. A conﬁdence shock has particularly severe repercussions in this setting since, by wiping out the effective stock of reserves, it causes an even more severe recession. Furthermore, for any given level of issuance, conﬁdence crises are more likely since the Hegemon now faces an extra ex-post incentive to devalue in order to stimulate its economy. Such domestic output stabilization considerations played an important role in the U.K.’s decision to devalue Sterling in 1931, and the U.S.’s decision to devalue the Dollar in 1933 and again in 1971-73. Under a ﬂoating exchange rate regime, away from the Zero Lower Bound (ZLB), world central banks can adjust interest rates and stabilize output. At the ZLB, interest rates are ﬁxed and the economics of the IMS mimic those of the gold-exchange standard. Hence, our model draws a profound parallel between the events and debates of the 1920s and 1960s and those of our time. 3 It also links two frequently- opposed views: the Keynesian view that emphasizes the expansionary effect of debt issuance, and the ﬁnancial stability view that stresses the associated real economic risks. In our model, at the ZLB, the Hegemon faces increased incentives to issue and take the risk of a crisis (as in the ﬁnancial stability view), its issuance stimulates output as long as no crisis occurs (as in the Keynesian view), but the crisis, if it occurs, is ampliﬁed by Keynesian mechanisms. Until this point, we have focused on an IMS that is dominated by a Hegemon with a monopoly over the issuance of reserve assets. Of course, this is a simpliﬁcation. Historically, the IMS under the gold- exchange standard of the 1920s was multipolar with the U.K. and the U.S. as a de facto duopoly: Figure 1 Panel (b) shows that 52% and 47% of the world reserves were held in pounds and dollars, respectively, in 1928. While the current IMS is dominated by the U.S., it also features other, competing, issuers. Indeed, Figure 1 Panel (d) shows that the Euro and the Yen already play a reserve-currency role. There is speculation that the future of the IMS might involve other reserve currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi. We explore the equilibrium consequences of the presence of multiple reserve asset issuers for both the total quantity of reserve assets and for the stability of the IMS. More precisely, we analyze a multipolar world with oligopolistic issuers of reserve assets that compete à la Cournot. Under full commitment, competition increases the total supply of reserves, reduces the safety premium, and is therefore beneﬁcial. Furthermore, the largest beneﬁts accrue with the ﬁrst few entrants. This paints a bright picture of a multipolar world, as extolled by Eichengreen (2011) among others. Our analysis suggests that limited commitment may signiﬁcantly alter this picture and render the 3Our results in Section 5 when we consider sticky prices at the ZLB are related to Caballero and Farhi (2014), Caballero, Farhi and Gourinchas (2016), Eggertsson and Mehrotra (2014), Eggertsson et al. (2016), who also investigate the potential recessionary effect of the scarcity of (reserve) assets, but do not take into account the oligopolistic nature of reserve issuance and the limited commitment of the issuers with the associated potential for crises. 4
=== PAGE 7/61 ===
beneﬁts of competition U-shaped: a lot of competition is good, but a little competition may be of limited beneﬁt or even detrimental. With a large number of issuers, total issuance is high but individual issuance is low and each issuer operates in its Safety zone, so that the equilibrium coincides with that under full commitment. A darker picture may emerge with only a few issuers if, as hypothesized by Nurkse (1944), the presence of several reserve assets worsens coordination problems and leads to instability as investors substitute away from one reserve asset and towards another. This warning is important given that, in practice, most multipolar scenarios only involve a limited number of reserve issuers. Nurkse famously pointed to the instability of the IMS during the interregnum between Sterling and the Dollar. The 1920s were dominated by ﬂuctuations in the share of reserves denominated in these two currencies (Eichengreen and Flandreau (2009)); it was precisely these frequent switches of RoW reserve holdings between the two currencies that led Nurkse to his skeptical diagnosis. In our model, this possibility arises because limited commitment gives a central role to coordination among investors. For example, we show that when moving from a monopoly Hegemon to a duopoly, worsening coordination problems might not only lead to a less stable IMS but also to a fall in the total supply of reserve assets. This aspect of our work is complementary to He et al. (2015), who study the selection of reserve assets among two possible candidates using global games. We also show that our framework can be generalized to capture a number of key additional aspects of the IMS. This highlights the versatility of our framework, and the fruitfulness of our approach. In the interest of space, we only brieﬂy alert the interested reader to these extensions, in which we study: a micro-foundation of the cost of devaluations as the expected net present value of future monopoly rents accruing to a particular reserve issuer, highlighting another limit to the beneﬁts of competition through the erosion of "franchise value"; private issuance of reserve assets; liquidity and network effects; ﬁscal capacity; currency of goods pricing; endogenous entry leading to a natural monopoly; the endogenous emergence of a Hegemon and its characteristics; and LoLR and risk-sharing arrangements to reduce the world demand for reserves. 2 The Hegemon Model In this section, we introduce a baseline model that captures the core forces of the IMS. We consider the deﬁning characteristics of reserve assets to be their safety and liquidity, and think of the world ﬁnancial system as being characterized by a scarcity of such reserve assets, which can only be issued by a few countries. We trace the scarcity of reserve assets to commitment problems, which prevent most countries from issuing in signiﬁcant amounts. In this section, we consider the limit case with only a single issuer (the Hegemon) of reserve assets. We later consider a multipolar model with several issuers in Section 6. 5
=== PAGE 8/61 ===
2.1 Model Setup There are two periods ( t = 0,1) and two classes of agents: the Hegemon country and RoW, where the latter is composed of a competitive fringe of international investors. There is a single good. The Hegemon and RoW endowments of this good att = 0 are respectivelyw and w∗, where stars indicate RoW variables. There are two assets: a risky real asset that is in perfectly elastic supply, and a nominal bond that is issued exclusively by the Hegemon and is denominated in its currency. There are two states of the world at t = 1, indexed by H and L. The L state, which we refer to for mnemonics as a disaster, occurs with probability λ∈ (0,1). The risky asset’s exogenous real return between time t = 0 and t = 1 is Rr H > 1 in state H and Rr L < 1 in state L. We deﬁne the short-hand notationσ 2 = Var(Rr) and ¯Rr = E[Rr].4 The RoW representative agent does not consume at t = 0 and has mean-variance preferences over consumption at time t = 1 with risk aversion γ > 0 given by U∗(C∗ 1) = E[C∗ 1]− γ Var[C∗ 1]. The Hegemon representative agent is risk neutral over consumption in both periods U(C0,C1) = C0 + δ E[C1], with a rate of time preference given by δ = 1/ ¯Rr ensuring indifference with respect to the timing of consumption. Devaluations. At time t = 1, after uncertainty is resolved, the Hegemon chooses its nominal exchange rate. We denote the proportional change in the exchange rate by e, with the convention that a decrease in the exchange rate (e < 1) corresponds to a devaluation. The real ex-post return of Hegemon bonds is Re, where R = ˜R/Π∗ is the ratio of the nominal yield ˜R in the Hegemon currency determined at t = 0, and the inﬂation rate Π∗ in RoW, which we assume to be deterministic. For most of the paper, the reader is encouraged to think of Π∗ = 1 (a simpliﬁcation without loss of generality except for ZLB considerations). In this baseline setup, we assume that deviations from some “commonly agreed-upon” path (i.e. a state-contingent plan) of the exchange rate generate a utility loss for the Hegemon (att = 1). We focus on the incentives of the Hegemon to devalue in bad rather than in good times by only allowing the Hegemon to devalue its currency in a disaster. This is a stylized way of capturing the notion that the temptation to devalue is higher after a bad shock. This would happen if the Hegemon were also risk averse with a decreasing marginal utility of consumption, but to a lesser extent than RoW. For simplicity, we assume that the Hegemon can only choose two values of e ={eH,eL},with eH = 1 and eL < 1. We assume throughout the paper that eL = Rr L/Rr H. This assumption simpliﬁes the analysis 4We take RoW to be composed of many countries and, within each country, many types of reserve buyers (central banks, private banks, investment managers, etc.). We therefore assume that RoW is competitive and takes world prices of assets as given. The reader can think of Rr as the return on a risky bond that is not a reserve asset. For simplicity, we introduce a single risky asset in the model, but one could also think more generally of many gradations of riskiness. We assume that RoW cannot short the Hegemon bond, i.e. it cannot issue the bond. This clariﬁes the nature of the monopoly of the Hegemon, but it is not a binding constraint since RoW is a purchaser of the bond in equilibrium. 6
=== PAGE 9/61 ===
at little cost to the economics by making the Hegemon debt, when it is risky, a perfect substitute for the risky asset.5,6 If the Hegemon chooses to devalue in a disaster, it pays a ﬁxed utility cost τ(1− eL) > 0. The nor- malization by 1− eL is introduced only for notational convenience and is innocuous since eL is a ﬁxed constant. This cost is exogenous in the present one-period setup and can be interpreted equally as a direct cost or as a reputation cost; indeed we formally show in Section 7 that it can be rationalized in a dynamic setting as the probabilistic loss of future monopoly rents (cheaper ﬁnancing) that the Hegemon suffers after a devaluation of its currency in a stochastic-punishment equilibrium with grim trigger strategies. The devaluation acts as a partial default. Indeed, in the baseline model of this section it is isomorphic to a partial default. In Section 5, in which we introduce nominal rigidities, this isomorphism breaks down since devaluations lead to changes in relative prices either between goods or between goods and gold, whereas partial defaults do not. We choose to model devaluations and not defaults because, historically, lower repayments by reserve issuers have always been achieved via devaluations and not via outright defaults (e.g. the U.K. in 1931, and the U.S. in 1933 and 1971-73). Conﬁdence crises. The timing of decisions follows the self-fulﬁlling crisis model of Calvo (1988). The timeline is summarized in Figure 2; here we describe the decisions starting from the last one and proceeding backwards. At t = 1, after observing the realization of the disaster, the Hegemon sets its exchange rate by taking as given the interest rate on debt R and the amount of outstanding debt b to be repaid to RoW. At t = 0+, a sunspot is realized; the interest rate R on the quantity of debt b being sold by the Hegemon is determined, and RoW forms its portfolio. The sunspot takes realization iss (for safe) with probability α, and r (for risky) with the complement probability. At timet = 0−, the Hegemon determines how much debt b to issue and its investment in the risky asset. The crucial element in this Calvo timing is that the real value of nominal debt to be soldb is set before the interest rate to be paid on it R is determined, and cannot be adjusted depending on the interest rate. This timing generates the possibility of multiple equilibria, depending on RoW investors’ expectations regarding the future exchange rate e in the event of a disaster. Indeed, as we shall see below, it gives rise to three zones for b: a Safety zone, an Instability zone, and a Collapse zone. In the Safety zone, e = 1 independently of the realization of the sunspot, so that the Hegemon debt is safe. Conversely, in the Collapse zone, e = eL independently of the sunspot, so that the Hegemon debt is risky. In the Instability zone, e = 1 and the Hegemon debt is therefore safe if the sunspot realization is s, and e = eL and the Hegemon debt is therefore risky if the sunspot realization is r. Our decision to focus on strategic risk rather than fundamental risk is motivated by the historical evidence. The different incarnations of the IMS (e.g. the gold-exchange standard of the 1920s, and the Bretton Woods system of the 1950s-1960s) tend to be stable for considerable periods of time and 5In general, the elasticity of the demand for risky Hegemon debt is an increasing function of the covariance between the ex- change rate and the return on the risky asset. Monopoly power and monopoly rents are a decreasing function of this covariance. 6As an extension, one can consider a different conﬁguration with eH > 1 and eL < 1, which allows for the possibility of the reserve asset being a hedge (a negative “beta” asset) instead of a risk-less asset. We consider the risk-less conﬁguration in this paper, as it provides most of the economics while making the model as simple as possible. 7
=== PAGE 10/61 ===
then collapse very abruptly in crises that resemble conﬁdence crises both in the data and in the writings of contemporaries and economic historians. In modern economic theory, one prominent way to model conﬁdence crises is via self-fulﬁlling mechanisms of the sort we adopt here. This is not to say that fundamental risk plays no role, and indeed many of our results would go through with fundamental shocks. It is useful to deﬁne short-hand notation for expectation operators. Deﬁnition 1 We deﬁne E+[x1] to denote the expectation taken at time t = 0+ of random variable x 1 the realization of which will occur at t = 1. We further deﬁne Es[x1] to be the expectation taken at t = 0+ conditional on the safe realization of the sunspot, and Er[x1] to be the expectation taken at t = 0+ conditional on the risky realization of the sunspot. We deﬁne E−[x1] to be the expectation taken at t = 0− before the sunspot realization. RoW demand function for debt. The RoW portfolio optimization problem at t = 0+ is given by max b,C∗ 1 E+[C∗ 1]− γ Var+(C∗ 1), s.t. w∗ = s∗ + b s ∗≥ 0 b≥ 0, s∗Rr + bRe = C∗ 1, where s∗≥ 0 and b≥ 0 denote investment in the world risky asset and in Hegemon debt respectively. If the Hegemon debt is expected to be safe, then the optimality condition for the portfolio of RoW leads to a linear demand curve for Hegemon debt Rs(b) = ¯Rr− 2γ(w∗− b)σ 2. (1) Interest rates increase with the amount of debt, and decrease with the risk aversion of RoW (γ ), the background riskiness of the economy (σ 2), and the savings/endowment of RoW (w∗).7 If, instead, the Hegemon debt is expected to be risky, then it is a perfect substitute for the risky asset. No arbitrage then requires that R = Rr H, so that Er[Re] = ¯Rr and the demand for the Hegemon debt is inﬁnitely elastic.8 The Hegemon issuance problem. Issuance by the Hegemon at t = 0− is the solution of the following problem max s,b,C0,C1 E−[C0 + δ (C1− τ(1− e))], 7The demand for safe assets as a macroeconomic force has also been analyzed in different contexts by: Dang, Gorton and Holmstrom (2015), Gorton and Ordonez (2014), Moreira and Savov (2014), Gorton and Penacchi (1990), Gorton and Ordonez (2013), Hart and Zingales (2014), Greenwood, Hanson and Stein (2015), Gennaioli, Shleifer and Vishny (2012). 8Proposition A.1 in the appendix provides more details on the exclusion of the possibility of backward bending demand for risky debt. We impose the parameter restriction ¯Rr− 2γw∗σ 2 > 0 to guarantee that the demand function never violates free disposal. The restriction ensures that yields on risk-free debt are always greater than−100%: i.e. prices of debt must be strictly positive. Violation of this condition would result in cases of arbitrage: debt could have negative prices despite having strictly positive payoffs. 8
=== PAGE 11/61 ===
s.t. w−C0 = s− b, sRr− bR(b) e = C1, b≥ 0 s≥ 0, where s≥ 0 is investment in the risky asset. This problem can be rewritten in the following intuitive form max b≥0 b( ¯Rr− E−[R(b)e])− E−[τ(1− e)]. (2) The Hegemon takes into account the effects of its issuance on the interest rate on its debt as well as on its future incentives to devalue at t = 1 in case of a disaster depending on the realization of the sunspot at t = 0+. Note that the Hegemon is indifferent between investing in the risky asset, to be consumed at time t = 1, and consuming the proceeds of the debt sale b at time t = 0. The term b ¯Rr in equation (2) captures these beneﬁts.9 2.2 Full-Commitment Equilibrium To build intuition and a reference point for future outcomes, we ﬁrst solve the baseline model under full commitment. That is, we assume that the Hegemon can commit to the future exchange rate when deciding how much debt to issue at time t = 0− or, equivalently, that τ→ ∞, so that there is an inﬁnite penalty for devaluing. In this case, the Hegemon never devalues (e = 1) and its debt is always safe. The maximization problem for the Hegemon then becomes max b≥0 V FC(b) = b( ¯Rr− Rs(b)), (3) which states that utility maximization is the same as maximizing the expected wealth transfer that the Hegemon receives from RoW. The wealth transfer is the product of two terms: the amount of debt issued, b, and the safety premium on that debt, ¯Rr− Rs(b). The Hegemon trades off a larger debt issuance against a lower safety premium, leading to the optimal- ity condition ¯Rr− Rs(b)− b R′s(b) = 0. (4) This optimality condition is a type of Lerner formula; the monopolist issues debt at a mark-up over marginal cost that depends on the elasticity of the demand function ¯Rr− Rs(b) Rs(b) = bR′s(b) Rs(b) . 9For example, our model is consistent with but does not require the Hegemon to issue debt and concurrently hold a large portfolio of risky assets against it. The model is equally consistent with a setup where the Hegemon borrows to ﬁnance immediate spending. 9
=== PAGE 12/61 ===
From the demand function for safe debt in equation (1), the slope of the demand curve is: R′s(b) = 2γσ 2. Substituting this into Equation (4), we get b = 1 2γ ¯Rr− Rs(b) σ 2 ≥ 0. (5) Equilibrium issuance depends positively on the Sharpe ratio of the risky asset, and negatively on the coefﬁcient of risk aversion. It can be obtained in closed form by solving equation (5), yielding bFC = 1 2w∗. Equilibrium debt issuance under full commitment only depends on foreign wealth, because the parameters γ and σ increase the level and decrease the elasticity of the demand curve with offsetting effects on equilibrium issuance. Plugging back into equation (5), we obtain the interest rate Rs(b) on reserve assets Rs(bFC) = ¯Rr− γσ 2w∗. The safety premium on reserve assets isγσ 2w∗, which is increasing in RoW risk aversion (γ), the riskiness of the risky asset (σ), and the wealth of RoW (w∗). From the Hegemon budget constraints, we have:C0 + δ E[C1] = w + δbFC( ¯Rr−Rs(bFC)). On average, the Hegemon consumes more than the average proceeds that would result from entirely investing its wealth in the risky asset. This extra positive (on average) transfer from RoW is the monopoly rent given by bFC( ¯Rr− Rs(bFC)) = 1 2 γσ 2w∗2. (6) For reasons that will later become clear, we term these monopoly rents the “exorbitant privilege”. Like the safety premium, the exorbitant privilege is increasing in risk aversion (γ ), the pool of savings (w∗) of RoW, and the background risk (σ). We collect all results under commitment in the proposition below.10 Proposition 1 (Full-Commitment Equilibrium). Under full commitment, the Hegemon chooses to issue risk-free debt and commits not to devalue in a disaster. The equilibrium interest rate, issuance, and exorbitant privilege (monopoly rent) are given by Rs(bFC) = ¯Rr− γσ 2w∗, bFC = 1 2w∗, and b FC( ¯Rr− Rs(bFC)) = 1 2 γσ 2w∗2. It is illuminating to contrast the Hegemon monopoly equilibrium with that of perfect competition, which obtains when the Hegemon, instead of taking into account the increase in the interest resulting from an increase in its issuance, takes the interest rate as given. Lemma 1 (Perfect-Competition Equilibrium). Under perfect competition and full commitment, the equi- 10Proposition A.2 in the Online Appendix provides mild conditions under which equilibrium prices are arbitrage free. 10
=== PAGE 57/61 ===
curve Rs(b). They are isomorphic to a renormalized version of the baseline model with different values of w∗ and γ. Larger marginal liquidity beneﬁts (↑ω1) decrease the level ofRs(b), while stronger decreasing re- turns in liquidity beneﬁts (↓Ω11) increase the level and the slope of Rs(b). Similarly, larger network effects (↑ Ω12) decrease the level and the slope ofRs(b).43 If the debt is expected to be risky, then the demand curve is the same as the one in the basic mean-variance case (R = Rr H). We put this extension to use in Section A.2.6, in which we analyze the endogenous emergence of a Hegemon in the presence of network effects. Recalling from equation (A.8) that liquidity and network effects are isomorphic to changes in γ and w∗, we conclude that higher liquidity beneﬁts (↑ω1) and stronger network effects (↑Ω12) increase both the level of issuance and the size of the exorbitant privilege. A.2.6 Endogenous Emergence of a Hegemon in a Multipolar World In this section, we analyze whether the IMS has a natural tendency towards a Hegemon and, in this case, what the key determinants of Hegemon status are. We emphasize three characteristics: ﬁscal capacity, reputation, and currency of pricing in the goods market. We study conﬁgurations of the multipolar model in which differences in these characteristics lead to asymmetric equilibria with a large and a small issuer of reserve assets. Such asymmetric equilibria can be interpreted as leading to the natural emergence of a Hegemon. We emphasize how networks effects and the interactions of limited commitment and coordination can amplify small differences in characteristics. Fiscal capacity. We consider a scenario in which in a duopoly i∈{1, 2} issuers differ in their ﬁscal capacity. We model ﬁscal capacity as the social cost of public funds whereby repayingbR actually requires resources bRφ with φ > 1. We consider a small difference between the two issuers:φ1 < φ2, with φ2−φ1 < ε and ε arbitrarily small. For simplicity, we assume that αi = 0 for both countries i∈{1, 2} so that there are no coordination problems. Furthermore, we assume that τ is sufﬁciently large that the full-commitment outcome is outside of the Collapse zone for each country. We introduce liquidity and network effects along the lines of the extension presented in Section 2.1 and we use the corresponding notation. We assume that each RoW household receives marginal liquidity beneﬁts from holding reserve currency i given by ω1 + 2Ω11(bi + b−i) + (Ω12 + Ω21)˜bi. In other words, marginal liquidity beneﬁts excluding network effects ω1 + 2Ω11(bi + b−i) depend only on total holdings bi + b−i while network effects (Ω12 + Ω21)˜bi are speciﬁc to each reserve currency. The aggregate demand curves for each reserve currency are therefore given by Rs i (bi;b−i) = ¯Rr− 2γσ 2(w∗− (bi + b−i))− ω1− 2Ω11(bi + b−i)− (Ω12 + Ω21)bi, where we have substituted in the aggregation condition bi = ˜bi. The difference in equilibrium issuance is given by: b1− b2 = ¯Rr( 1 φ1 − 1 φ2 ) 2(γσ 2− Ω11− Ω12− Ω21) , (A.9) where by analogy with the extension in Section 2.1 we assume that γσ 2− Ω11− Ω12− Ω21 > 0. Note that not only is the issuer with the greater ﬁscal capacity issuing more ( b1 > b2), but also the difference in ﬁscal capacities is ampliﬁed by network effects Ω12 + Ω21 > 0 through a multiplier (the denominator in equation (A.9)). This captures the notion that the depth and liquidity of U.S. ﬁnancial markets is an equilibrium outcome that ampliﬁes a ﬁscal capacity advantage and consolidates the role of the U.S. Dollar as the dominant reserve currency. 43 For a liquidity/safety assessment of the demand for US treasuries, seeKrishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen(2012). For risk based empirical assessments of Dollar currency premia, seeHassan (2013), Hassan and Mano (2014), Verdel- han (2016). A.13
=== PAGE 58/61 ===
Reputation. We analyze the role of differences in reputation by studying a duopoly i∈{1, 2} with dif- ferences in the ability to commit τ1 > τ2. For simplicity, we assume that αi = 1 for both countries i∈{1, 2}, capturing severe coordination problems. In this case, both issuers decide to issue inside their respective Safety zones, but issuer 1 has a larger Safety zone b1 = τ1/Rr H > τ2/Rr H = b 2. This corresponds to a stan- dard Cournot duopoly with heterogenous capacity constraints given here by b1 and b2. In equilibrium, the issuer with the higher capacity constraint (issuer 1) issues more. These differences in the ability to commit can arise from institutional and historical factors. In the next paragraph we show that they can also arise endogenously from goods pricing. IMS meets IPS. We consider a duopoly i∈{ 1,2} and assume that prices are fully rigid in one of the two reserve currencies, say i = 1, rather than in RoW currency as assumed in Section 5. This captures the empirical regularity that prices are disproportionately quoted in the dominant reserve currency, in U.S. dollars at present and in British sterling in the 1920s, a fact dubbed the International Price System (IPS) by Gopinath (2015). In this case, the real return of debt denominated in reserve currency 1, in which the goods are priced, is always safe. The crucial consequence is that country 1 endogenously acquires de facto full commitment, while country 2 still faces limited commitment as in our analysis so far. 44 We solve for an illustrative equilibrium by assuming that country 2 faces the least favorable expectations withα2 = 1. This is isomorphic to a standard Cournot model with two ﬁrms, one of which has a ﬁxed capacity constraint while the other is unconstrained, where b plays the role of the ﬁxed capacity constraint. In equilibrium, country 1 issues more, potentially much more, than country 2. This offers one rationalization for the association in the data between currency of pricing in the goods market and currency denomination of reserve assets. A.2.7 Endogenous Entry and Natural Monopoly To model endogenous entry, we add an ex-ante state to the model, where potential reserve issuers choose whether to incur a ﬁxed costK to increase their reputation from 0 toτ. This entry cost K could proxy for the various costly steps that must be taken over time by countries who desire to play a signiﬁcant international role, for example by slowly building a reputation for currency stability in times of crisis at the cost of domestic welfare. Not only could these costs be large, but the opportunities to demonstrate good behavior and boost reputation might be very infrequent. A potential reserve issuer who incurs K faces no cost of devaluing his currency, and hence cannot issue any positive amount of reserve assets since RoW investors rationally expect its debt to be risky. By contrast, a potential reserve issuer who incursK faces a cost τ of devaluing his currency and can therefore issue some reserve assets and earn some monopoly rents. Monopoly rents per issuer depend on the number of entrants and on the extent of coordination problems via a particular equilibrium selection. A natural monopoly arises when with large ﬁxed costs and small variable costs, total monopoly rents are too small to sustain entry by a large number of reserve issuers. This tendency to a small number of reserve issuers is accentuated when coordination problems in the post-entry equilibrium worsen with entry. 44In practice debt reductions could be engineered either through an exchange rate devaluation or through an outright default. The pricing of goods in the reserve currency reduces the ex-post incentives to devalue. While the incentives to default are unchanged, such defaults are rarer in practice perhaps because of higher true or perceived associated costs. A.14
=== PAGE 59/61 ===
A.2.8 Risk-sharing, LoLR Arrangements and the Trifﬁn Dilemma One approach to mitigating the Trifﬁn dilemma and the associated instability of the IMS is to introduce policies that reduce the demand for reserve assets at all levels of global savings w∗. Such policies have often been proposed by economists looking to reform the IMS (Keynes (1943), Harrod (1961), Machlup (1963), Meade (1965), Rueff (1963), Farhi, Gourinchas and Rey (2011)). Their most recent incarnations have included swap lines amongst central banks, credit lines by the IMF as LoLR, and international reserve sharing agreements such as the Chiang Mai initiative. Our framework can capture the rationale behind these policies with a simple extension of the demand curve for reserve assets in equation (1). We assume that each of the many countries in RoW is saddled with an idiosyncratic background endowment risk ωi. We also assume that if variance ( C∗ 1) is above a variance threshold in equilibrium, then international investors penalize variance at the margin with “risk aversion” ¯γ, rather than γ < ¯γ. This is a simple reduced-form way of capturing a form of precautionary savings. We assume that the variance ofωi is so large that the variance of future consumption remains above the variance threshold even when the country invests all its savings in reserve assets; however, the variance of future consumption falls below the variance threshold in the absence of idiosyncratic background risk, even when there are no reserve assets. In that case, a sufﬁciently good idiosyncratic risk-sharing arrangement among RoW countries reduces the equilibrium demand for reserve assets by lowering marginal “risk aversion” to the lower level γ . In a world with more idiosyncratic risk-sharing and lower “risk aversion”, the Hegemon ﬁnds issuing in the Safety zone relatively more attractive than issuing in the Instability zone. Indeed, assuming that b < bFC < ¯b(γ) for both values of γ, the proﬁts from issuingbFC are equal to (1− α)bFC2γσ 2(w∗− bFC)− αλ τ(1− eL) and the proﬁts from issuingb are equal to b2γσ 2(w∗− b). Hence, the proﬁts from issuingbFC decrease more than the proﬁts from issuingb when γ drops from ¯γ to γ. A.15
=== PAGE 60/61 ===
Appendix Figures Figure A.1: Third Party Issuance in Reserve Currencies Note: Source: Chitu, Eichengreen and Mehl (2014). The ﬁgure plots the percentage of sovereign debt issued in pounds or dollars as a fraction of all sovereign debt issued in foreign currency by the rest of the world. See original source for details. Appendix References Accominotti, Olivier.2012. “London merchant banks, the central European panic, and the sterling crisis of 1931.” The Journal of Economic History, 72(01): 1–43. Bruno, Valentina, and Hyun Song Shin. 2015. “Global dollar credit and carry trades: a ﬁrm-level analy- sis.” BIS working paper. Chitu, Livia, Barry Eichengreen, and Arnaud Mehl. 2014. “When did the dollar overtake sterling as the leading international currency? Evidence from the bond markets.” Journal of Development Economics, 111: 225–245. Despres, E., C.P. Kindleberger, and W.S. Salant.1966. The Dollar and World Liquidity: A Minority View. Brookings Institution, Reprint, Brookings Institution. Du, Wenxin, and Jesse Schreger. 2015. “Sovereign Risk, Currency Risk, and Corporate Balance Sheets.” Harvard, Department of Economics Working Paper. Farhi, Emmanuel, Pierre-Olivier Gourinchas, and Hélène Rey. 2011. Reforming the international mon- etary system. CEPR. Gabaix, Xavier, and Matteo Maggiori.2015. “International Liquidity and Exchange Rate Dynamics.” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 130(3): 1369–1420. Gopinath, Gita. 2015. “The international price system.” National Bureau of Economic Research. Gourinchas, Pierre-Olivier, and Helene Rey. 2007. “From world banker to world venture capitalist: US external adjustment and the exorbitant privilege.” In G7 Current Account Imbalances: Sustainability and Adjustment. Harrod, Roy. 1961. “A Plan for Increasing Liquidity: A Critique.” Economica, 28(110): 195–202. Hassan, Tarek A. 2013. “Country Size, Currency Unions, and International Asset Returns.” Journal of Finance, 68(6): 2269–2308. A.16
=== PAGE 61/61 ===
Hassan, Tarek A, and Rui C Mano. 2014. “Forward and spot exchange rates in a multi-currency world.” National Bureau of Economic Research. Keynes, J.M. 1943. Proposal for an International Clearing Union. British Government Publication, Cmd 6437. Krishnamurthy, Arvind, and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen. 2012. “The aggregate demand for treasury debt.” Journal of Political Economy, 120(2): 233–267. Machlup, Fritz. 1963. “Reform of the international monetary system.” World Monetary Reform: Plans and Issues,(Stanford University Press and Oxford University Press, Stanford, CA and London 1963), 253–260. Maggiori, Matteo. 2012. “Financial Intermediation, International Risk Sharing, and Reserve Currencies.” Unpublished manuscript, Harvard University. Meade, James E. 1965. “The future of international payments.” World Monetary Reform: Plans and Issues. Rueff, Jacques. 1963. “Gold exchange standard a danger to the West.” reprinted in H. Grubel (ed.) World Monetary Reform, 320–8. Shleifer, Andrei, and Robert W. Vishny.1997. “The limits of arbitrage.” Journal of Finance, 52(1): 35–55. Stein, Jeremy C. 2012. “Monetary Policy as Financial Stability Regulation.” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 127: 57–95. Tobin, James. 1980. “Discussion.” In Models of monetary economies: proceedings and contributions from participants of a December 1978 conference sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. , ed. John H Kareken and Neil Wallace. Federal reserve bank of Minneapolis. Verdelhan, Adrien. 2016. “The share of systematic variation in bilateral exchange rates.” Forthcoming in the Journal of Finance. A.17