
=== PAGE 1/52 ===
A Macroeconomic Model with a Financial Sector ∗ Markus K. Brunnermeier and Yuliy Sannikov† February 22, 2011 Abstract This paper studies the full equilibrium dynamics of an economy with ﬁnancial frictions. Due to highly non-linear ampliﬁcation eﬀects, the economy is prone to instability and occasionally enters volatile episodes. Risk is endogenous and asset price correlations are high in down turns. In an environment of low exogenous risk experts assume higher leverage making the system more prone to systemic volatility spikes - a volatility paradox. Securitization and derivatives contracts leads to better sharing of exogenous risk but to higher endogenous systemic risk. Financial experts may impose a negative externality on each other by not maintaining adequate capital cushion. ∗We thank Nobu Kiyotaki, Hyun Shin, Thomas Philippon, Ricardo Reis, Guido Lorenzoni, Huberto Ennis, V. V. Chari, Simon Potter, Emmanuel Farhi, Monika Piazzesi, Simon Gilchrist, Ben Moll and seminar participants at Princeton, HKU Theory Conference, FESAMES 2009, Tokyo University, City University of Hong Kong, University of Toulouse, University of Maryland, UPF, UAB, CUFE, Duke, NYU 5-star Conference, Stanford, Berkeley, San Francisco Fed, USC, UCLA, MIT, University of Wis- consin, IMF, Cambridge University, Cowles Foundation, Minneapolis Fed, New York Fed, University of Chicago, the Bank of Portugal Conference, Econometric Society World Congress in Shanghai, Seoul National University, European Central Bank and UT Austin. We also thank Wei Cui, Ji Huang, Dirk Paulsen, Andrei Rachkov and Martin Schmalz for excellent research assistance. †Brunnermeier: Department of Economics, Princeton University, markus@princeton.edu, San- nikov: Department of Economics, Princeton University, sannikov@gmail.com 1
=== PAGE 2/52 ===
1 Introduction Many standard macroeconomic models are based on identical households that invest directly without ﬁnancial intermediaries. This representative agent approach can only yield realistic macroeconomic predictions if, in reality, there are no frictions in the ﬁ- nancial sector. Yet, following the Great Depression, economists such as Fisher (1933), Keynes (1936) and Minsky (1986) have attributed the economic downturn to the fail- ure of ﬁnancial markets. The current ﬁnancial crisis has underscored once again the importance of the ﬁnancial sector for the business cycles. Central ideas to modeling ﬁnancial frictions include heterogeneous agents with lend- ing. One class of agents - let us call them experts - have superior ability or greater willingness to manage and invest in productive assets. Because experts have limited net worth, they end up borrowing from other agents who are less skilled at managing or less willing to hold productive assets. Existing literature uncovers two important properties of business cycles, persistence and ampliﬁcation. Persistence arises when a temporary adverse shock depresses the economy for a long time. The reason is that a decline in experts’ net worth in a given period results in depressed economic activity, and low net worth of experts in the subsequent period. The causes of ampliﬁcation are leverage and the feedback eﬀect of prices. Through leverage, expert net worth absorbs a magniﬁed eﬀect of each shock, such as new information about the potential future earning power of current investments. When the shock is aggregate, aﬀecting many experts at once, it results in decreased demand for assets and a drop in asset prices, further lowering the net worth of experts, further feeding back into prices, and so on. Thus, each shock passes through this inﬁnite ampliﬁcation loop, and asset price volatility created through this mechanism is sometimes referred to as endogenous risk. Bernanke and Gertler (1989), Bernanke, Gertler, and Gilchrist (1999) and Kiyotaki and Moore (1997) build a macro model with these eﬀects, and study linearized system dynamics around the steady state. We build a model to study full equilibrium dynamics, not just near the steady state. While the system is characterized by relative stability, low volatility and reasonable growth around the steady state, its behavior away from the steady state is very diﬀer- ent and best resembles crises episodes as large losses plunge the system into a regime with high volatility. These crisis episodes are highly nonlinear, and strong amplify- ing adverse feedback loops during these incidents may take the system way below the stochastic steady state, resulting in signiﬁcant ineﬃciencies, disinvestment, and slow recovery. Interestingly, the stationary distribution is double-humped shaped suggest- ing that (without government intervention) the dynamical system spends a signiﬁcant amount of time in the crisis state once thrown there. The reason why the ampliﬁcation of shocks through prices is much milder near than below the stochastic steady state is because experts choose their capital cushions endogenously. In the normal regime, experts choose their capital ratios to be able to withstand reasonable losses. Excess proﬁts are paid out (as bonuses, dividends, etc) and mild losses are absorbed by reduced payouts to raise capital cushions to a desired level. Thus, normally experts are fairly unconstrained and are able to absorb moderate 2
=== PAGE 3/52 ===
shocks to net worth easily, without a signiﬁcant eﬀect on their demand for assets and market prices. Consequently, for small shocks ampliﬁcation is limited. However, in response to more signiﬁcant losses, experts choose to reduce their positions, aﬀecting asset prices and triggering ampliﬁcation loops. The stronger asset prices react to shocks to the net worth of experts, the stronger the feedback eﬀect that causes further drops in net worth, due to depressed prices. Thus, it follows that below the steady state, when experts feel more constrained, the system becomes less stable as the volatility shoots up. Asset prices exhibit fat tails due to endogenous systemic risk rather than exogenously assumed rare events. This feature causes volatility smirk eﬀects in option prices during the times of low volatility. Our results imply that endogenous risk and excess volatility created through the ampliﬁcation loop make asset prices signiﬁcantly more correlated cross-sectionally in crises than in normal times. While cash ﬂow shocks aﬀect the values of individual assets held by experts, feedback eﬀects aﬀect the prices of all assets held by experts. 1 We argue that it is typical for the system to enter into occasional volatile episodes away from the steady state because risk-taking is endogenous. This may seem sur- prising, because one may guess that log-linearization near the steady state is a valid approximation when exogenous risk parameters are small. In our model this guess would be incorrect, because experts choose their leverage endogenously in response to the riskiness of the assets they hold. Thus, assets with lower fundamental uncertainty result in greater leverage. Paradoxically, lower exogenous risk can make the systemic more susceptible to volatility spikes – a phenomenon we refer to as “volatility para- dox”. In sum, whatever the exogenous risk, it is normal for the system to sporadically enter volatile regimes away from the steady state. In fact, our results suggest that low exogenous risk environment is conducive to greater buildup of systemic risk. We ﬁnd that higher volatility due to endogenous risk also increases the experts’ precautionary hoarding motive. That is, when changes in asset prices are driven by the constraints of market participants rather than changes in cash ﬂow fundamentals, incentives to hold cash and wait to pick up assets at the bottom increase. In case prices fall further, the same amount of money can buy a larger quantity of assets, and at a lower price, increasing expected return. In our equilibrium this phenomenon leads to price drops in anticipation of the crisis, and higher expected return in times of increased endogenous risk. Aggregate equilibrium leverage is determined by experts’ responses to everybody else’s leverage – higher aggregate leverage increases endogenous risk, increases the precautionary motive and reduces individual incentives to lever up. 2 We also ﬁnd that due to endogenous risk-taking, derivatives hedging, securitization 1While our model does not diﬀerentiate experts by specialization (so in equilibrium experts hold fully diversiﬁed portfolios, leading to the same endogenous correlation across all assets), our results have important implications also for networks linked by similarity in asset holdings. Important models of network eﬀects and contagion include Allen and Gale (2000) and Zawadowski (2009). 2The fact that in reality risk taking by leveraged market participants is not observable to others can lead to risk management strategies that are in aggregate mutually inconsistent. Too many of them might be planning to sell their capital in case of an adverse shock, leading to larger than expected price drops. Brunnermeier, Gorton, and Krishnamurthy (2010) argue that this is one contributing factor to systemic risk. 3
=== PAGE 4/52 ===
and other forms of ﬁnancial innovation may make the ﬁnancial system less stable. That is, volatile excursion away from the steady state may become more frequent with the use of mechanisms that allow intermediaries to share risks more eﬃciently among each other. For example, securitization of home loans into mortgage-backed securities allows institutions that originate loans to unload some of the risks to other institutions. More generally, institutions can share risks through contracts like credit- default swaps, through integration of commercial banks and investment banks, and through more complex intermediation chains (e.g. see Shin (2010)). To study the eﬀects of these risk-sharing mechanisms on equilibrium, we add idiosyncratic shocks to our model. We ﬁnd that when expert can hedge idiosyncratic shocks among each other, they become less ﬁnancially constrained and take on more leverage, making the system less stable. Thus, while securitization is in principle a good thing - it reduces the costs of idiosyncratic shocks and thus interest rate spreads - it ends up amplifying systemic risks in equilibrium. Financial frictions in our model lead not only to ampliﬁcation of exogenous risk through endogenous risk but also to ineﬃciencies. Externalities can be one source of ineﬃciencies as individual decision makers do not fully internalize the impact of their actions on others. Pecuniary externalities arise since individual market participants take prices as given, while as a group they aﬀect them. Literature review. Financial crises are common in history - having occurred at roughly 10-year intervals in Western Europe over the past four centuries, according Kindleberger (1993). Crises have become less frequent with the introduction of central banks and regulation that includes deposit insurance and capital requirements (see Allen and Gale (2007) and Cooper (2008)). Yet, the stability of the ﬁnancial system has been brought into the spotlight again by the events of the current crises, see Brunnermeier (2009). Financial frictions can limit the ﬂow of funds among heterogeneous agents. Credit and collateral constraints limit the debt capacity of borrowers, while equity constraints bound the total amount of outside equity. Both constraints together imply the solvency constraint. That is, net worth has to be nonnegative all the time. The literature on credit constraints typically also assumes that ﬁrms cannot issue any equity. In addition, in Kiyotaki and Moore (1997) credit is limited by the expected price of the collateral in the next period. In Geanakoplos (1997, 2003) and Brunnermeier and Pedersen (2009) borrowing capacity is limited by possible adverse price movement in the next period. Hence, greater future price volatility leads to higher haircuts and margins, further tightening the liquidity constraint and limiting leverage. Garleanu and Pedersen (2010) study asset price implications for an exogenous margin process. Shleifer and Vishny (1992) argue that when physical collateral is liquidated, its price is depressed since natural buyers, who are typically in the same industry, are likely to be also constrained. Gromb and Vayanos (2002) provide welfare analysis for a setting with credit constraints. Rampini and Viswanathan (2011) show that highly productive ﬁrms go closer to their debt capacity and hence are harder hit in a downturns. In Carlstrom and Fuerst (1997) and Bernanke, Gertler, and Gilchrist (1999) entrepreneurs do not 4
=== PAGE 5/52 ===
face a credit constraint but debt becomes more expensive as with higher debt level default probability increases. In this paper experts can issue some equity but have to retain “skin in the game” and hence can only sell oﬀ a fraction of the total risk. In Shleifer and Vishny (1997) fund managers are also concerned about their equity constraint binding in the future. He and Krishnamurthy (2010b,a) also assume an equity constraint. One major role of the ﬁnancial sector is to mitigate some of the ﬁnancial frictions. Like Diamond (1984) and Holmstr¨ om and Tirole (1997) we assume that ﬁnancial in- termediaries have a special monitoring technology to overcome some of the frictions. However, the intermediaries’ ability to reduce these frictions depends on their net worth. In Diamond and Dybvig (1983) and Allen and Gale (2007) ﬁnancial intermedi- aries hold long-term assets ﬁnanced by short-term liabilities and hence are subject to runs, and He and Xiong (2009) model general runs on non-ﬁnancial ﬁrms. In Shleifer and Vishny (2010) banks are unstable since they operate in a market inﬂuenced by investor sentiment. Many papers have studied the ampliﬁcation of shocks through the ﬁnancial sec- tor near the steady state, using log-linearization. Besides the aforementioned papers, Christiano, Eichenbaum, and Evans (2005), Christiano, Motto, and Rostagno (2003, 2007), Curdia and Woodford (2009), Gertler and Karadi (2009) and Gertler and Kiy- otaki (2011) use the same technique to study related questions, including the impact of monetary policy on ﬁnancial frictions. We argue that the ﬁnancial system exhibits the types of instabilities that cannot be adequately studied by steady-state analysis, and use the recursive approach to solve for full equilibrium dynamics. Our solution builds upon recursive macroeconomics, see Stokey and Lucas (1989) and Ljungqvist and Sargent (2004). We adapt this approach to study the ﬁnancial system, and enhance tractability by using continuous-time methods, see Sannikov (2008) and DeMarzo and Sannikov (2006). A few other papers that do not log-linearize include Mendoza (2010) and He and Krishnamurthy (2010b,a). Perhaps most closely related to our model is He and Krish- namurthy (2010b). The latter studies an endowment economy to derive a two-factor asset pricing model for assets that are exclusively held by ﬁnancial experts. Like in our paper, ﬁnancial experts issue outside equity to households but face an equity con- straint due to moral hazard problems. When experts are well capitalized, risk premia are determined by aggregate risk aversion since the outside equity constraint does not bind. However, after a severe adverse shock experts, who cannot sell risky assets to households, become constrained and risk premia rise sharply. He and Krishnamurthy (2010a) calibrate a variant of the model and show that equity injection is a superior policy compared to interest rate cuts or asset purchasing programs by the central bank. Pecuniary externalities that arise in our setting lead to socially ineﬃcient excessive borrowing, leverage and volatility. These externalities are studied in Bhattacharya and Gale (1987) in which externalities arise in the interbank market and in Caballero and Krishnamurthy (2004) which study externalities an international open economy framework. On a more abstract level these eﬀects can be traced back to ineﬃciency results within an incomplete markets general equilibrium setting, see e.g. Stiglitz (1982) and Geanakoplos and Polemarchakis (1986). In Lorenzoni (2008) and Jeanne 5
=== PAGE 6/52 ===
and Korinek (2010) funding constraints depend on prices that each individual investor takes as given. Adrian and Brunnermeier (2010) provide a systemic risk measure and argue that ﬁnancial regulation should focus on these externalities. We set up our baseline model in Section 2. In Section 3 we develop methodology to solve the model, and characterize the equilibrium that is Markov in the experts’ aggregate net worth and presents a computed example. Section 4 discusses equilibrium asset allocation and leverage, endogenous and systemic risk and equilibrium dynamics in normal as well as crisis times. We also extend the model to multiple assets, and show that endogenous risk makes asset prices much more correlated in cross-section in crisis times. In Section 5 focuses on the “volatility paradox”. We show that the ﬁnancial system is always prone to instabilities and systemic risk due endogenous risk taking. We also argue that hedging of risks within the ﬁnancial sector, while reducing ineﬃciencies from idiosyncratic risks, may lead to the ampliﬁcation of systemic risks. Section 6 is devoted to eﬃciency and externalities. Section 7 microfounds experts’ balance sheets in the form that we took as given in the baseline model, and extend analysis to more complex intermediation chains. Section 8 concludes. 2 The Baseline Model In an economy without ﬁnancial frictions and complete markets, the distribution of net worth does not matter as the ﬂow of funds to the most productive agents is uncon- strained. In our model ﬁnancial frictions limit the ﬂow of funds from less productive households to more productive entrepreneurs. Hence, higher net worth in the hands of the entrepreneurs leads to higher overall productivity. In addition, ﬁnancial interme- diaries can mitigate ﬁnancial frictions and improve the ﬂow of funds. However, they need to have suﬃcient net worth on their own. In short, the two key variables in our economy are entrepreneurs’ net worth and ﬁnancial intermediaries’ net worth. When the net worth’s of intermediaries and entrepreneurs become depressed, the allocation of resources (such as capital) in the economy becomes less eﬃcient and asset prices become depressed. In our baseline model we study equilibrium in a simpler system governed by a single state variable, “expert” net worth. We interpret it as an aggregate of intermediary and entrepreneur net worth’s. In Section 7 we partially characterize equilibrium in a more general setting and provide conditions under which the more general model of intermediation reduces to our baseline setting. Technology. We consider an economy populated by experts and less productive households. Both types of agents can own capital, but experts are able to manage it more productively. The experts’ ability to hold capital and equilibrium asset prices will depend on the experts’ net worths in our model. We denote the aggregate account of eﬃciency units of capital in the economy by Kt, where t∈ [0,∞) is time, and capital held by an individual agent by kt. Physical capital kt held by experts produces output at rate yt = akt, 6
=== PAGE 7/52 ===
per unit of time, where a is a parameter. The price of output is set equal to one and serves as numeraire. Experts can create new capital through internal investment. When held by an expert, capital evolves according to dkt = (Φ(ιt)− δ)kt dt + σkt dZt where ιtkt is the investment rate (i.e. ιt is the investment rate per unit of capital), the function Φ( ιt) reﬂects (dis)investment costs and dZt are exogenous Brownian ag- gregate shocks. We assume that that Φ(0) = 0, so in the absence of new investment capital depreciates at rate δ when managed by experts, and that the function Φ( ·) is increasing and concave. That is, the marginal impact of internal investment on capital is decreasing when it is positive, and there is “technological illiquidity,” i.e. large-scale disinvestments are less eﬀective, when it is negative. Households are less productive and do not have an internal investment technology. The capital that is managed by households produces only output of yt = a kt with a≤ a. In addition, capital held in households’ hands depreciates at a faster rate δ≥ δ. The law of motion of kt when managed by households is dkt =−δ kt dt + σk t dZt. The Brownian shocks dZt reﬂect the fact that one learns over time how “eﬀective” the capital stock is. 3 That is, the shocks dZt captures changes in expectations about the future productivity of capital, and kt reﬂects the “eﬃciency units” of capital, measured in expected future output rather than in simple units of physical capital (number of machines). For example, when a company reports current earnings it not only reveals information about current but also future expected cashs ﬂow. In this sense our model is also linked to the literature on connects news to business cycles, see e.g. Jaimovich and Rebelo (2009). Preferences. Experts and less productive households are risk neutral. Households discount future consumption at rate r, and they may consume both positive and neg- ative amounts. This assumption ensures that households provide fully elastic lending at the risk-free rate of r. Denote by ct the cumulative consumption of an individual household until time t, so that dct is consumption at time t. Then the utility of a household is given by 4 E [∫ ∞ 0 e−rt dct ] . 3Alternatively, one can also assume that the economy experiences aggregate TFP shocks at with dat = atσdZt. Output would be yt = atκt, where capital κ is now measured in physical (instead of eﬃciency) units and evolves according to dκt = (Φ(ιt/at)−δ)κtdt. To preserve the tractable scale invariance property one has to modify the adjustment cost function to Φ( ιt/at). The fact that adjustment costs are higher for high at can be justiﬁed by the fact that high TFP economies are more specialized. 4Note that we do not denote byc(t) the ﬂow of consumption and writeE [∫∞ 0 e−ρtc(t)dt ] , because consumption can be lumpy and singular and hence c(t) may be not well deﬁned. 7
=== PAGE 8/52 ===
In contrast, experts discount future consumption at rate ρ > r, and they cannot have negative consumption. That is, cumulative consumption of an individual expert ct must be a nondecreasing process, i.e. dct≥ 0. Expert utility is E [∫ ∞ 0 e−ρt dct ] . Market for Capital. There is a fully liquid market for physical capital, in which experts can trade capital among each other or with households. Denote the market price of capital (per eﬃciency unit) in terms of output by qt and its law of motion by 5 dqt = µq t qt dt + σq t qt dZt In equilibrium qt is determined endogenously through supply and demand relationships. Moreover, qt > q≡ a/(r + δ), since even if households had to hold the capital forever, the Gordon growth formula tells us that they would be willing to pay q. When an expert buys and holds kt units of capital at price qt, by Ito’s lemma the value of this capital evolves according to 6 d(ktqt) = (Φ(ιt)− δ + µq t + σσ q t )(ktqt) dt + (σ + σq t )(ktqt) dZt. (1) Note that the total risk of holding this position in capital consists of fundamental risk due to news about the future productivity of capital σ dZt, and endogenous risk due to the allocation of capital between experts and less productive households, σq t dZt. Capital also generates output net of investment of ( a− ιt)kt, so the total return from one unit of wealth invested in capital is (a− ιt qt + Φ(ιt)− δ + µq t + σσ q t )    ≡Et[rk t ] dt + (σ + σq t ) dZt. We denote the experts’ expected return on capital by Et[rk t ]. Experts’ problem. The evolution of expert’s net worth nt depends on how much debt and equity he issues. Less productive households provide fully elastic debt funding at a discount rate r < ρ to any expert with positive net worth, as long as he can guarantee to repay the loan with probability one. 7 5Note that qt follows a diﬀusion process because all new information in our economy is generated by the Brownian motion Zt. 6The version of Ito’s lemma we use is the product rule d(XtYt) =YtdXt +XtdYt +σxσydt. Note that unlike in standard portfolio theory, kt is not a ﬁnite variation process and has volatility σkt, hence the term σσq t (ktqt). 7In the short run, an individual expert can hold an arbitrarily large amount of capital by borrowing through risk-free debt because prices change continuously in our model, and individual experts are small and have no price impact. 8
=== PAGE 9/52 ===
For an expert who only ﬁnances his capital holding of qtkt through debt, without issuing any equity, the net worth evolves according to dnt = rnt dt + (ktqt)[(Et[rk t ]− r) dt + (σ + σq t ) dZt]− dct. (2) In this equation, the exposure to capital kt may change over time due to trading, but trades themselves do not aﬀect expert net worth because we assume that individual experts are small and have no price impact. The terms in the square brackets reﬂect the excess return from holding one unit of capital. Experts can in addition issue some (outside) equity. Equity ﬁnancing leads to a modiﬁed equation for the law of motion of expert net worth. We assume that the amount of equity that experts can issue is limited. Speciﬁcally, they are required to hold at least a fraction of ˜ ϕ of total risk of the capital they hold, and they are able to invest in capital only when their net worth is positive. That is, experts are bound by an equity constraint and a solvency constraint. In Section 7 we microfound these ﬁnancing constraints using an agency model, and explain its relation to contracting and observability and also fully model the intermediary sector that monitors and lends to more productive households. When experts holds a fraction ϕt≥ ˜ϕ of capital risk and unload the rest to less productive households through equity issuance, the law of motion of expert net worth (2) has to be modiﬁed to dnt = rnt dt + (ktqt)[(Et[rk t ]− r) dt + ϕt(σ + σq t ) dZt]− dct. (3) Equation (3) takes into account that, since less productive households are risk-neutral, they require only an expected return ofr on their equity investment. Figure 1 illustrates the balance sheet of an individual expert at a ﬁxed moment of time t.8 8Equation (3) captures the essence about the evolution of experts’ balance sheets. To fully char- acterize the full mechanics note ﬁrst that equity is divided into inside equity with value nt, which is held by the expert and outside equity, with value (1−ϕt)nt/ϕt, held by less productive households. At any moment of time t, an expert holds capital with value ktqt ﬁnanced by equity nt/ϕt and debt ktqt−nt/ϕt. The equity stake of less productive households changes according to r(1−ϕt)/ϕtntdt + (1−ϕt)(ktqt)(σ +σq t )dZt− (1−ϕt)/ϕtdct, where (1−ϕt)/ϕtdct is the share of dividend payouts that goes to outside equity holders. Since the expected return on capital held by experts is higher than the risk-free rate, inside equity earns a higher return than outside equity. This diﬀerence can be implemented through a fee paid by outside equity holders to the expert for managing assets. From equation (3), the earnings of inside equity in excess of the rate of return r are (ktqt)(Et[rk t ]−r). Thus, to keep the ratio of outside equity to inside equity at (1 −ϕt)/ϕt, the expert has to raise outside equity at rate (1−ϕt)/ϕt(ktqt)(Et[rk t ]−r). 9
=== PAGE 10/52 ===
Figure 1: Expert balance sheet with inside and outside equity Formally, each expert solves max dct≥0,ιt,kt≥0,ϕt≥ ˜ϕ E [∫ ∞ 0 e−ρtdct ] , subject to the solvency constraint nt≥ 0,∀t and the dynamic budget constraint (3). Households’ problem. Each household may lend to experts at the risk-free rate r, buy experts’ outside equity, or buy physical capital from experts. Let ξt denote the amount of risk that the household is exposed to through its holdings of outside equity of experts and dct is the consumption of an individual household. When a household with net worth nt buys capital kt and invests the remaining net worth, nt− ktqt at the risk-free rate and in experts’ outside equity, then dnt = rnt dt + ξt(σ + σq t ) dZt + (ktqt)[(Et[rk t ]− r) dt + (σ + σq t ) dZt]− dct. (4) Analogous to experts, we denote households’ expected return of capital by Et[rk t ]≡ a qt − δ + µq t + σσ q t . Formally, each household solves max dct,kt≥0,ξt≥0 E [∫ ∞ 0 e−rtdct ] , subject to nt≥ 0 and the evolution of nt given by (4). Note that unlike that of experts, household consumption dct can be both positive and negative. In sum, experts and households diﬀer in three ways: First, experts are more pro- ductive since a≥ a and/or δ < δ . Second, experts are less patient than households, i.e. ρ > r . Third, experts’ consumption has to be positive while we allow for negative households consumption to ensure that the risk free rate is always r.9 9Negative consumption could be interpreted as the disutility from an additional labor input to produce extra output. 10
=== PAGE 11/52 ===
Equilibrium. Informally, an equilibrium is characterized by market prices of capital {qt}, investment and consumption choices of agents such that, given prices, agents maximize their expected utilities and markets clear. To deﬁne an equilibrium formally, we denote the set of experts to be the interval I = [0, 1], and index individual experts by i∈ I, and similarly denote the set of less productive households by J = (1, 2] with index j. Deﬁnition 1 For any initial endowments of capital {ki 0, kj 0; i∈ I, j∈ J} such that ∫ I ki 0 di + ∫ J kj 0 d j= K0, an equilibrium is described by a group of stochastic processes on the ﬁltered probability space deﬁned by the Brownian motion{Zt, t≥ 0}: the price process of capital{qt}, net worths{ni t≥ 0}, capital holdings {ki t≥ 0}, investment decisions {ιi t∈ R}, fractions of equity retained {ϕi t≥ ˜ϕ} and consumption choices {dci t≥ 0} of individual experts i∈ I, and net worths {nj t}, capital holdings {kj t}, investments in outside equity {ξj t} and consumption choices{dcj t} of each less productive household j∈ J; such that (i) initial net worths satisfy ni 0 = q0ki 0 and nj 0 = q0kj 0, for i∈ I and j∈ J, (ii) each expert i∈ I solve his problem given prices (iii) each household j∈ J solve his problem given prices (iv) markets for consumption goods, 10 equity, and capital clear ∫ I (dci t) di + ∫ J (dcj t) d j= (∫ I (a− ιi t)ki t di + ∫ J a kj t d j ) dt, ∫ I (1− ϕi t)ki t di = ∫ J ξj t d j, and ∫ I ki t di + ∫ J kj t d j= Kt, where dKt = (∫ I ki t(Φ(ιt)− δ) di− ∫ J δ kj t d j ) dt + σKt dZt. Note that if three of the markets clear, then the remaining market for risk-free lending and borrowing at rate r automatically clears by Walras’ Law. 3 Solving for the Equilibrium To solve for the equilibrium, we ﬁrst derive conditions for households’ and experts’ optimal capital holding given prices qt, and use them together with the market-clearing conditions to solve for prices, and investment and consumption choices simultaneously. We proceed in two steps. First, we derive equilibrium conditions that the stochastic 10In equilibrium while aggregate consumption is continuous with respect to time, the experts’ and households’ consumption is not. However, their singular parts cancel out in the aggregate. 11
=== PAGE 12/52 ===
equations for the price of capital and the marginal value of net worth have to satisfy in general. Second, we show that the dynamics of our basic setup can be described by a single state variable and derive the system of equations to solve for the price of capital and the marginal value of net worth as functions of this state variable. Intuitively, we expect the equilibrium prices to fall after negative macro shocks, because those shocks lead to expert losses and make them more constrained. At some point, prices may drop so far that less productive households may ﬁnd it proﬁtable to buy capital from experts. Less productive households are speculative as they hope to make capital gains. In this sense they are liquidity providers as they pick up some of the functions of the traditional ﬁnancial sector in times of crises. 11 Households’ optimization problem is straightforward as they are not ﬁnancially con- strained. In equilibrium they must earn a return of r, their discount rate, on invest- ments in the risk-free assets and expert’s equity. Their expected return on physical capital cannot exceed r in equilibrium, since otherwise they would demand an inﬁnite amount of capital. Formally, denote the fraction of physical capital held by households by 1− ψt = 1 Kt ∫ J kj t d j. Households expected return has to be exactly r when 1− ψt > 0, and not greater than r when 1− ψt = 0. This leads to the equilibrium condition a qt − δ + µq t + σσ q t    Et[rk t ] ≤ r, with equality if 1 − ψt > 0. (H) Experts’ optimization problems are signiﬁcantly more complex because experts are ﬁnancially constrained and the problem that they face is dynamic. That is, their decisions on how much to lever up depend not only on the current price levels and their production technologies, but also on the whole future law of motion of prices. They face the following trade-oﬀ: greater leverage leads to both higher proﬁt and greater risk. Even though experts are risk-neutral with respect to consumption streams in our model, our analysis shows that they exhibit risk-averse behavior (in aggregate) because their investment opportunities are time-varying. Taking on greater risk leads experts to suﬀer greater losses exactly in the events when they value funds the most - after negative shocks when prices become depressed and proﬁtable opportunities arise. Before discussing dynamic optimality of experts’ strategies, note that one choice that experts make, internal investment ιt, is static. Optimal investment maximizes ktqtΦ(ιt)− ktιt. 11Investors like Warren Buﬀet have helped institutions like Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo with capital infusions. More generally, governments through backstop facilities have played a huge role in providing capital to ﬁnancial institutions in various ways and induced large shifts in asset holdings (see He, Khang, and Krishnamurthy (2010)). Our model does not capture the important role the government played in providing various lending facilities during the great recession. 12
=== PAGE 48/52 ===
Appendix C. Stationary Distribution Suppose that Xt is a stochastic process that evolve on the state space [xL, xR] according to the equation dXt = µx(Xt) dt + σx(Xt) dZt (9) If at time t = 0, Xt is distributed according to the density d(x, 0), then the density of Xt at all future dates t≥ 0 is described by the forward Kolmogorov equations: ∂ ∂t d (x, t) =− ∂ ∂x (µx (x) d (x, t)) + 1 2 ∂2 ∂x2 ( σx (x)2 d (x, t) ) . If one of the endpoints is a reﬂecting barrier, then the boundary condition at that point is −µx(x)d(x, t) + 1 2 ∂ ∂x (σx(x)2d(x, t)) = 0. A stationary density stays ﬁxed over time under the law of motion of the process, so the left-hand side of the Kolmogorov forward equation is ∂d(x,t) ∂t = 0. If one of the endpoints of the interval [ xL, xR] is reﬂecting, then integrating with respect to x and using the boundary condition at the reﬂecting barrier to pin down the integration constant, we ﬁnd that the stationary density is characterized by the ﬁrst-order ordinary diﬀerential equation −µx(x)d(x) + 1 2 ∂ ∂x (σx(x)2d(x)) = 0. To compute the stationary density numerically, it is convenient to work with the function D(x) = σx(x)2d(x), which satisﬁes the ODE D′(x) = 2 µx(x) σx(x)2 D(x). (10) Then d(x) can be found from D(x) using d(x) = D(x) σx(x)2 . With absorbing boundaries, the process eventually ends up absorbed (and so the stationary distribution is degenerate) unless the law of motion prevents (9) it from hitting the boundary with probability one. A non-degenerate stationary density exists with an absorbing boundary at xL if the boundary condition D(xL) = 0 can be satisﬁed together with D(x0) > 0 for x0 > x L. For this to happen, we need log D(x) = log D(x0)− ∫ x0 x 2µx(x′) σx(x′)2 dx′→−∞ , as x→ xL i.e ∫ x0 xL 2µx(x) σx(x)2 dx =∞. This condition is satisﬁed whenever the drift that pushes Xt away from the boundary xL (so we need µx(x) > 0) is strong enough working against the volatility that may move Xt towards xL. For example, if Xt behaves as a geometric Brownian motion near the boundary xL = 0, i.e. µx(x) = µx and σx(x) = σx, with µ > 0, then ∫ x0 0 2µx(x) σx(x)2 dx = ∫ x0 0 2µ σ2x dx =∞. 48
=== PAGE 49/52 ===
References Adrian, T., and M. K. Brunnermeier (2010): “CoVaR,” working paper. Allen, F., and D. Gale (2000): “Financial Contagion,” Journal of Political Econ- omy, 108(1), pp.1–33. Allen, F., and D. Gale (2007): Understanding Financial Crisis. Oxford University Press. Bates, D. S. (2000): “Post-’87 Crash Fears in the S&P Futures Market,” Journal of Econometrics, 94, 181–238. Bernanke, B., M. Gertler, and S. Gilchrist (1999): “The Financial Accelerator in a Quantitative Business Cycle Framework,” in Handbook of Macroeconomics, ed. by J. B. Taylor, and M. Woodford, vol. 1, chap. 21, pp. 1341–1393. Elsevier. Bernanke, B. S., and M. Gertler (1989): “Agency Costs, Net Worth, and Busi- ness Fluctuations,” American Economic Review, 79(1), 14–31. Bhattacharya, S., and D. Gale (1987): “Preference Shocks, Liquidity, and Central Bank Policy,” in New Approaches to Monetary Economics , ed. by W. A. Barnett, and K. J. Singleton, pp. 69–88. Cambridge University Press. Brunnermeier, Markus, K. (2009): “Deciphering the Liquidity and Credit Crunch 2007-08,” Journal of of Economic Perspectives , 23(1), 77–100. Brunnermeier, M. K., G. Gorton, and A. Krishnamurthy (2010): “Risk Topography,” working paper. Brunnermeier, M. K., and L. Pedersen (2009): “Market Liquidity and Funding Liquidity,” Review of Financial Studies , 22(6), pp.2201–2238. Brunnermeier, M. K., and Y. Sannikov (2010): “A Macroeconomic Model with a Financial Sector,” mimeo. Caballero, R., and A. Krishnamurthy (2004): “Smoothing Sudden Stops,” Journal of Economic Theory , 119(4), pp.104–127. Carlstrom, C. T., and T. S. Fuerst (1997): “Agency Costs, Net Worth, and Business Fluctuations: A Computable General Equilibrium Analysis,” American Economic Review, 87(5), 893–910. Christiano, L., M. Eichenbaum, and C. Evans (2005): “Nominal Rigidities and the Dynamic Eﬀects of a Shock to Monetary Policy,” Journal of Political Economy , 113(1), 1–45. Christiano, L., R. Motto, and M. Rostagno (2003): “The Great Depression and the Friedman-Schwartz Hypothesis,” Journal of Money, Credit & Banking , 35(6), pp.1119–1197. 49
=== PAGE 50/52 ===
(2007): “Shocks, Structures or Monetary Policies? The Euro Area and US After 2001,” Journal of Economic Dyanmics and Control , 32(8), 2476–2506. Cooper, G. (2008): The Origin of Financial Crisis : Central Banks, Credit Bubbles, and the Eﬃcient Market Fallacy . Vintage. Curdia, V., and M. Woodford (2009): “Credit Spreads and Monetary Policy,” working paper. DeMarzo, P. M., and Y. Sannikov (2006): “Optimal Security Design and Dy- namic Capital Structure in a Continuous-Time Agency Model,” The Journal of Fi- nance, 61(6), 2681–2724. Diamond, D. W. (1984): “Financial Intermediation and Delegated Monitoring,” The Review of Economic Studies , 51(3), 393–414. Diamond, D. W., and P. H. Dybvig (1983): “Bank Runs, Deposit Insurance, and Liquidity,” The Journal of Political Economy , 91(3), 401–419. Driessen, J., P. Maenhout, and G. Vilkov (2009): “The Price of Correlation Risk: Evidence from Equity Options,” Journal of Finance , 64(3), 1377–1406. Erb, C. B., C. R. Harvey, and T. E. Viskanta (1994): “Forecasting International Equity Correlations,” Financial Analysts Journal , 50(6), 32–45. Fisher, I. (1933): “The Debt-Deﬂation Theory of Great Depressions,” Econometrica, 1(4), 337–357. Fudenberg, D., B. Holmstr ¨om, and P. Milgrom (1990): “Short-term Contracts and Long-term Agency Relationships,” Journal of Economic Theory , 51(1), 1–31. Garleanu, N., and L. Pedersen (2010): “Margin-Based Asset Pricing and Devia- tions from the Law of One Price,” working paper. Geanakoplos, J. (1997): “Promises Promises,” in The Economy as an Evolving Complex System II , ed. by W. B. Arthur, S. Durlauf, and D. Lane, pp. 285–320. Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA. (2003): “Liquidity, Defaults, and Crashes,” in Advances in Economics and Econometrics: Theory and Applications, Eighth World Congress, Volume 2 , vol. 2 of Econometric Society Monographs, pp. 170–205. Cambridge University Press. Geanakoplos, J., and H. Polemarchakis (1986): “Existence, Regularity, and Constrained Suboptimality of Competitive Allocations when the Asset Market is Incomplete,” in Uncertainty, Information and Communication: Essays in Honor of Kenneth J. Arrow , ed. by W. P. Heller, R. M. Starr, and D. A. Starrett, vol. 3, pp. 65–95. Cambridge University Press. Gertler, M., and P. Karadi (2009): “A Model of Unconventional Monetary Pol- icy,” working paper. 50
=== PAGE 51/52 ===
Gertler, M., and N. Kiyotaki (2011): “Financial Intermediation and Credit Pol- icy in Business Cycle Ana,” in Handbook of Monetary Economics . North Holland Elsevier. Gromb, D., and D. V ayanos (2002): “Equilibrium and Welfare in Markets with Financially Constrained Arbitrageurs,” Journal of Financial Economics , 66(2-3), 361 – 407. He, Z., I. G. Khang, and A. Krishnamurthy (2010): “Balance Sheet Adjust- ments,” IMF Economic Review, 58, 118–156, working paper. He, Z., and A. Krishnamurthy (2010a): “Intermediary Asset Prices,” working paper. (2010b): “A Model of Capital Crisis,” working paper. He, Z., and W. Xiong (2009): “Dynamic Debt Runs,” working paper. Holmstr¨om, B., and J. Tirole (1997): “Financial Intermediation, Loanable Funds, and the Real Sector,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics , 112(3), pp.663–691. Jaimovich, N., and S. Rebelo (2009): “Can News about the Future Drive the Business Cycle,” American Economic, 99(4), 1097–1118. Jeanne, O., and A. Korinek (2010): “Managing Credit Booms and Busts: A Pigouvian Taxation Approach,” working paper. Keynes, John, M. (1936): The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money . Macmillan, London. Kindleberger, C. (1993): A Financial History of Western Europe. Oxfod University Press, 2nd edn. Kiyotaki, N., and J. Moore (1997): “Credit Cycles,” Journal of Political Economy, 105(2), pp.211–248. Ljungqvist, L., and T. J. Sargent (2004): Recursive Macroeconomic Theory. MIT Press. Lorenzoni, G. (2008): “Ineﬃcient Credit Booms,” The Review of Economic Studies , 75(3), 809–833. Mendoza, E. G. (2010): “Sudden Stops, Financial Crisis, and Leverage,” American Economic Rev, 100, 1941–1966. Minsky, H. (1986): Stabilizing and Unstable Economy . Yale University Press. Myerson, R. B. (2010): “A Model of Moral Hazard Credit Cycles,” Working Paper, University of Chicago. 51
=== PAGE 52/52 ===
Rampini, A., and S. Viswanathan (2011): “Collateral, Risk Management, and the Distribution of Debt Capacity,” Journal of Finance , forthcoming. Sannikov, Y. (2008): “A Continuous- Time Version of the Principal: Agent Prob- lem,” The Review of Economic Studies , 75(3), 957–984. Shin, H. (2010): Risk and Liquidity. Oxford University Press, Oxford, UK, Clarendon Lecture. Shleifer, A., and R. W. Vishny (1992): “Liquidation Values and Debt Capacity: A Market Equilibrium Approach,” The Journal of Finance , 47(4), 1343–1366. (1997): “The Limits of Arbitrage,” The Journal of Finance , 52(1), 35–55. (2010): “Unstable Banking,” Journal of Financial Economics , 97(3), 306 – 318, The 2007-8 ﬁnancial crisis: Lessons from corporate ﬁnance. Stiglitz, J. E. (1982): “The Ineﬃciency of the Stock Market Equilibrium,” The Review of Economic Studies , 49(2), 241–261. Stokey, N., and R. Lucas (1989): Recursive Methods in Economics Dynamics . Harvard University Press. Townsend, R. M. (1979): “Optimal Contracts and Competitive Markets with Costly State Veriﬁcation,” Journal of Economic Theory , 21(2), 265–293. Zawadowski, A. (2009): “Entangled Financial System,” working paper. 52