
=== PAGE 1/56 ===
NBER WORKING PAPER SERIES THE DEMAND FOR TREASURY DEBT Arvind Krishnamurthy Annette Vissing-Jorgensen Working Paper 12881 http://www.nber.org/papers/w12881 NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH 1050 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 January 2007 We thank Ricardo Caballero, Ken Garbade, Lorenzo Garlappi, Bob McDonald, Monika Piazzesi, Sergio Rebelo, Suresh Sundaresan and seminar participants at MIT, Moody's-KMV, NBER AP meeting, Northwestern University, University of Texas-Austin, and the NY Fed for comments. Josh Davis and Byron Scott provided research assistance. The views expressed herein are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Bureau of Economic Research. © 2007 by Arvind Krishnamurthy and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen. All rights reserved. Short sections of text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided that full credit, including © notice, is given to the source. 
=== PAGE 2/56 ===
The Demand for Treasury Debt Arvind Krishnamurthy and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen NBER Working Paper No. 12881 January 2007 JEL No. E43,G12 ABSTRACT We show that the US Debt/GDP ratio is negatively correlated with the spread between corporate bond yields and Treasury bond yields. The result holds even when controlling for the default risk on corporate bonds. We argue that the corporate bond spread reflects a convenience yield that investors attribute to Treasury debt. Changes in the supply of Treasury debt trace out the demand for convenience by investors. We show that the aggregate demand curve for the convenience provided by Treasury debt is downward sloping and provide estimates of the elasticity of demand. We analyze disaggregated data from the Flow of Funds Accounts of the Federal Reserve and show that individual groups of Treasury holders also have downward sloping demand curves. Even groups with the most elastic demand curves have demand curves that are far from flat. The results have bearing for important questions in finance and macroeconomics. We discuss implications for the behavior of corporate bond spreads, interest rate swap spreads, the riskless interest rate, and the value of aggregate liquidity. We also discuss the implications of our results for the financing of the US deficit, Ricardian equivalence, and the effects of foreign central bank demand on Treasury yields. Arvind Krishnamurthy Finance Department Kellogg School of Management Northwestern University 2001 Sheridan Road Evanston, IL 60208-2001 a-krishnamurthy@kellogg.northwestern.edu Annette Vissing-Jorgensen Finance Department Kellogg School of Management Northwestern University 2001 Sheridan Road Evanston, IL 60208-2001 and NBER a-vissing@northwestern.edu 
=== PAGE 3/56 ===
1 Introduction Figure 1 graphs the yield spread between AAA rated corporate bonds and Treasury securities against the US government debt-to-GDP ratio (i.e. the ratio of the face value of publicly held US government debt to US GDP). The ﬁgure suggests that the corporate bond spread is high when the stock of debt is low, while the spread is low when the stock of debt is high. Figure 1: Corporate Bond Spread and Government Debt 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 Debt/GDP AAA-Treas The corporate bond spread ( y-axis) is graphed versus the Debt/GDP ratio (x- axis) based on annual observations from 1925 to 2005. The bond spread is the diﬀerence between the percentage yield on Moody’s AAA long maturity bond index and the percentage yield on long maturity Treasury bonds. In the next sections of the paper, we argue that the negative correlation between the debt-to-GDP ratio and the corporate bond spread arises because of variation in the “convenience yield” on Treasury securities, rather than variation in the default risk of corporate borrowers. Investors place a value on Treasury securities – the convenience value – above and beyond the securities’ cash ﬂows. When the stock of debt is low, the marginal convenience valuation of debt is high. Investors bid up the price of Treasuries relative to other securities such as corporate bonds, causing the yield on Treasuries to fall further below corporate bond rates, and the bond spread to widen. The opposite applies when the stock of debt is high. Variation in the supply of Treasury securities traces out a downward sloping demand curve for Treasuries. We estimate the semi-elasticity of the corporate bond spread to the Debt/GDP ratio, ﬁnding that a hypothetical increase 2
=== PAGE 4/56 ===
in the Debt/GDP ratio from the current level of 0 .3 8t oan e wl e v e lo f0.39 will raise long term Treasury yields by between 1.5bps (Table I-A, Panel B, column (2)) and 4.25bps (Table IV-B, column (2)), relative to corporate bond yields. Sections 2, 3, 4, and 6 present these results relating the aggregate supply of Treasury securities to the spread between corporate and Treasury bond yields. We show that the results are robust to adding various controls for corporate default risk. We also show the results hold when the dependent variable is the spread between a short-maturity corporate bond and Treasury bond, or is the spread between the realized excess returns of corporate bonds over Treasury bonds. These results along with a number of other robustness checks presented in Section 8 strongly support the existence of a convenience yield on Treasury securities. Section 5 of the paper examines which groups of investors are the strongest drivers of the convenience value of Treasury securities. We ﬁrst argue that diﬀe rent groups of Treasury owners likely have diﬀerent motives for holding Treasuries. We then estimate which groups have the least elastic demand curves in order to determine which of the various motives are likely to contribute substantially to the convenience yield on Treasuries. We oﬀer three motives: The ﬁrst is a liquidity motive. Treasury securities are extremely liquid in comparison to corporate bonds. For example, Reinhart and Sack (2000) note that bid-oﬀer spreads on corporate bonds are four to six times larger than those of Treasury bonds. The liquidity motive is analogous to the demand for holding money. Like Treasuries, money oﬀers a low rate of return and yet is held in equilibrium. Theories of money demand suggest that this is because agents derive special liquidity services from holding money. For oﬃcial groups (foreign central banks, US regional Federal Reserve banks and US state and local governments) and for groups such as banks and households (including mutual funds) the liquidity of Treasuries may be very important. The second motive is a neutrality motive. Kohn (2005) suggest that a key reason for why the US federal reserve banks mainly hold Treasury securities is that they do not wish to favor any non-governmental borrower over another. A similar motive may apply to state and local governments and foreign central banks. The third motive is that Treasuries are widely considered the lowest risk interest bearing asset. The surety of Treasuries may be attractive for unsophisticated investors who are unable to assess the risk in corporate assets. We study disaggregated data from the Flow of Funds Accounts and estimate demand curves for each of the main groups that hold Treasuries. We ﬁnd that the Treasury demands of oﬃcial groups (foreign central banks, US regional Federal Reserve banks and US state and local governments) are the least sensitive to the corporate bond spread. Banks, households and the foreign private sector have somewhat more elastic Treasury demands, while groups who likely have very long investment horizons (state/local government retirement funds, private pension funds and insurance companies) have the most elastic Treasury demands. These ﬁndings suggest the liquidity and neutrality motives are primary factors behind the “convenience value” from holding Treasuries. 3
=== PAGE 5/56 ===
Our results have bearing for important questions in both ﬁnance and macroeconomics. In section 7 of the paper we discuss implications of our ﬁndings for the behavior of corporate bond spreads, the riskless interest rate, the value of aggregate liquidity, and the ﬁnancing of the US deﬁcit. We also use our demand curve estimates to quantify the eﬀects of foreign central bank demand on Treasury yields. Relation to Literature Our ﬁnding of a signiﬁcant non-default component in the corporate bond spread is consistent with some recent papers in the corporate bond pricing literature (see Co llin-Dufresne, Goldstein, and Martin (2001), Huang and Huang (2001), and Longstaﬀ, Mithal, and Neis (2005)). We also present evidence that the interest rate swap spread – that is the spread between corporate-referenced swap rates and Treasury bond rates – has a signiﬁcant non-default component. Duﬃe and Singleton (1997), Grinblatt (2001), He (2001), Liu, Longstaﬀ, and Mandell (2004), Li (2004), and Feldhutter and Lando (2005) argue for a signiﬁcant non-default component in the interest rate swap spread. Papers in the prior literature use information from the corporate bond market to estimate the default component of interest rate spreads, and label the residual as a non-default component. 1 Compared to the prior literature, the novelty of our work is to oﬀer a direct test of the convenience yield hypothesis and to document that the amount of Treasuries outstanding is a key driver of the non-default component of the corporate bond spread and of the interest rate swap spread. We are aware of only a few papers in the literature that have noted a correlation between the supply of government debt and interest rate spreads. Cortes (2003) documents a correlation between the US Debt/GDP ratio and swap spreads over a period from 1994 to 2003. Longstaﬀ (2004) documents a correlation between the supply of Treasury debt and the spread between Refcorp bonds and Treasury bonds over a period from 1991 to 2001. 2,3 Relative to both Cortes and Longstaﬀ we study a longer sample, provide a theoretical basis to study the relation, and present a more detailed empirical analysis. In particular, we use several approaches to rule out that the relation could be driven by time-varying default risk, and we estimate group 1Some of the papers in the prior literature also show that the non-defaultcomponent is related to the specialness of particular Treasury securities. A particular Treasury bond is “special” if the cost of borrowing the bond in the repurchase market exceeds that of other Treasury bonds with similar maturity and cash-ﬂow characteristics. Specialness leads to the yield on the special Treasury bond to fall below comparable Treasury bonds. See Krishnamurthy (2002) for further discussion of specialness. In a sense, we show that the entire Treasury market is “special” relative to other asset markets, and not just that one Treasury is special relative to another Treasury. 2Jovanovic and Rousseau (2001), Krishnamurthy (2002), and Sundaresan and Wang (2006) present evidence that the auc- tioned amount of speciﬁc Treasury securities aﬀects the value of these securities. Krishnamurthy (2002) and Sundaresan and Wang (2006) suggest that the link is due to the specialness of particular Treasury securities. These papers oﬀer evidence that supply has an eﬀect on the relative price of Treasury securities to other Treasury securities, not the relative price of Treasury securities to non-Treasury assets. 3Reinhart and Sack (2000) document a relation between the projected government deﬁcit and the slope of the Treasury yield curve. They suggest that the relation is evidence of a supply eﬀect: An expected change in the stock of debt causes investors to change the yield on long-term Treasury securities more than that of short-term securities. 4
=== PAGE 6/56 ===
level demand curves to shed light on which motives drive the relation between the corporate bond spread and the supply of Treasuries at the aggregate level. Dittmar and Yuan (2006) study a sample of sovereign and corporate bonds in emerging markets and show that the issuance of new sovereign bonds lowers yield spreads and bid-ask spreads of existing corporate bonds. Their result is suggestive that the convenience yield in government bonds may be an international phenomenon. In macroeconomics, there is a large literature exploring the Ricardian equivalence proposition (Barro, 1974), that the ﬁnancing choices of the government used to fund a given stream of government expenditures is irrelevant for equilibrium quantities and prices. One implication of the Ricardian equivalence proposition is that the size of government debt has no causal eﬀect on interest rates. Despite a large amount of research devoted to studying this topic, there is yet no clear consensus on the eﬀects of debt on interest rates (see, for example, the survey by Elmendorf and Mankiw (1999)). Barro (1987), Evans (1986) and Plosser (1986) ﬁnd little or no eﬀect of government debt on interest rates. Laubach (2005) does ﬁnd such an eﬀect when using forecast levels of government debt rather thancurrently measured levels (Laubach reports a 4− 5 bps eﬀect per one percentage point increase in Debt/GDP). We provide evidence that the stock of debt aﬀects the interest rates on government bonds. But it is important to note that the eﬀect we identify is on the spread between government interest rates and corporate interest rates. It is possible that Ricardian equivalence fails in a way that government debt has an eﬀect on the general level of interest rates, both corporate and government. Since we focus on spreads, we are unable to isolate such an eﬀect. On the other hand, as we focus on spreads, we can be certain that the eﬀect we identify on government interest rates is over and above any possible eﬀects of government debt on the general level of interest rates. From an empirical standpoint, the advantage of focusing on spreads rather than the level of interest rates is that the spread measure is unaﬀected by other shocks (such as changes in expected inﬂation) that aﬀect the level of interest rates and complicate inference. We also bypass endogeneity issues stemming from government behavior, since it is unlikely that the government chooses debt levels based on the corporate bond spread. At a broad level, our evidence is consistent with theories that ascribe a unique value to government debt. Bansal and Coleman (1996) present a theory in which debt, but not equity claims, are money-like and carry a convenience value. They argue that the theory can account for the high average equity premium and low average risk-free rate in the US. 4 Our ﬁnding of a unique value provided by government debt relative to private debt support theories such as Woodford (1990), Holmstrom and Tirole (1998), and Caballero and Krishnamurthy (2006). In these papers, the government’s credibility gives its securities unique collateral and liquidity features relative to private assets and thereby induces a premium on government assets. 4Aiyagari and Gertler (1990), Heaton and Lucas (1996), and Vaya nos and Vila (1999) present general equilibrium models in which an illiquid asset (i.e. stocks) carries a transaction co st while a liquid asset (bonds) do not. In equilibrium, the liquid asset has a liquidity premium over the illiquid asset. Eisfeldt (2006) studies whether the liquidity premium between short term bonds and longer term bonds can by rationalized in a calibrated consumption smoothing model, ﬁnding that it cannot. 5
=== PAGE 7/56 ===
2 The Convenience Yield on Treasury Securities We articulate the convenience yield theory in the context of a representative agent asset-pricing model. We price securities at datet that mature at datet+τ. The agent chooses holdings of these securities to maximize utility: u(ct)+ βτu(ct+τ). The Euler equation for the agent pins down the prices of assets at datet. For a riskless Treasury bond that pays one unit of consumption at date t + τ, PT t = E [mt+τ],m t+τ ≡ βτ u′(ct+τ) u′(ct) . mt+τ is the τ-period pricing kernel in the economy. For a corporate bond with face value of one and repayment 1+ DC t+τ (where DC t+τ = 0 in the absence of default andDC t+τ < 0 if there is default on the bond) at date t + τ, PC t = E [mt+τ(1 +DC t+τ)]. We compute the spread between corporate and Treasury bond yields in this model as follows. First, we deﬁne, yT t = − 1 τlnP T t and, yC t = − 1 τlnP C t as the yields on the corporate and Treasury bonds. These formula convert the price of a zero coupon bond into a continuously compounded zero coupon bond yield. Then, the corporate bond yield spread is equal to yC t − yT t = 1 τ ( ln E[mt+τ] − ln E[mt+τ(1 +DC t+τ)] ) ≈ 1 τ ( E[mt+τ] − E[mt+τ(1 +DC t+τ)] ) = 1 τE[−DC t+τ]E[mt+τ]+ 1 τcov(mt+τ, −DC t+τ) The approximation going from the ﬁrst to second line uses the relation that ln(1 +x) ≈ x for small x.F o r high grade corporate and government debt on which interest rates are low, bond prices may be close to one. Although it is clear that the approximation is imperfect in some circumstances, we make the approximation to motivate our empirical speciﬁcation. We deﬁne, ∆ ∗ t = Default Risk   1 τE[−DC t+τ]E[mt+τ]+ Risk Premium   1 τcov(mt+τ, −DC t+τ)( 1 ) as the “C-CAPM” value of the spread between corporate bonds and Treasury bonds. The spread has two components.5 5There is a third component in the spread of equation (1) that arises if we consider the diﬀerential tax treatment of corporate and Treasury bonds. We discuss the tax component in Section 8.2. 6
=== PAGE 8/56 ===
The ﬁrst term on the right-hand side reﬂects the expected losses due to default on corporate bonds (“default risk”). Higher expected defaults leads to a higher yield spread. The second term on the right hand side reﬂects the economic “risk premium” attached to default states. Depending on how default covaries with the marginal utility of the representative agent, default may carry an additional risk premium. We next modify this model to introduce a convenience value of Treasury securities. We observe that Treasury securities oﬀer unique services to agents in the economy. As noted in the introduction, some agents are motivated to buy Treasuries for liquidity reasons, some for neutrality reasons, and others for the surety that Treasuries oﬀer. These motives will be reﬂected in the aggregate demand for Treasury securities. We use the word “convenience” value to encompass the many motives for holding Treasuries. Section 5 of the paper oﬀers microeconomic evidence on the diﬀerent sources of convenience demand. The convenience demand theory is analogous to theories of money demand. Agents hold money despite the fact that it is a dominated asset because it oﬀers unique liquidity services. At any point in time, the convenience yield on money can be inferred from the overnight federal funds rate, since that is the price at which an agent can obtain the services of money for one day. Similarly, we argue that the convenience yield on Treasury securities can be inferred from asset prices. We modify the representative agent utility function to include a term whereby the agent receives utility from his Treasury holdings: u(c t)+ βτu(ct+τ)+ v(θT t ; Xt). v(·) reﬂects the unique services provided by Treasury securities, with v′(·) > 0a n dv′′(·) < 0. θT t is the agent’s holdings of Treasury debt and Xt are some of the factors that might aﬀect the valuation. This modiﬁcation is similar to monetary models with money in the utility function. For this modiﬁed model, PT t = E [mt+τ]+ v′(θT t ; Xt) u′(ct) We repeat the steps of converting prices into yields and ﬁnd, yC t − yT t ≈ Default Risk   1 τE[−DC t+τ]E[mt+τ]+ Risk Premium   1 τcov(mt+τ, −DC t+τ)+ Convenience Yield   v′(θT t ; Xt) τu′(ct) (2) As in equation (1), the yield spread has a default risk component and a risk premium component. Since Treasury securities are also assumed to provide a convenience value, the bond spread is increased by a convenience yield. Note that if v ′(·) is equal to zero the yield spread corresponds exactly to our previous C-CAPM yield spread. The introduction of convenience valuation widens the yield spread (last term). For simplicity we rewrite the convenience yield term as follows. Since the factors ( Xt)t h a ta ﬀ e c tt h e convenience valuation, v′(·), may include time t variables such as u′(ct), for brevity, we do not divide v′(·) 7
=== PAGE 9/56 ===
by τu′(ct) and simply write,6 yC t − yT t =∆ ∗ t + v′(θT t ; Xt) The yield spread characterizes the agent’s demand function for Treasury debt. If the US government supplies ΘT t of debt, then the equilibrium spread we should observe in the market is: ∆ ∗ t + v′(ΘT t ; Xt)( 3 ) We refer to ∆ ∗ t as the “default” component of the corporate bond spread, and v′(·) as the “non-default” component of the corporate bond spread. Recall from (1) that the default component includes both a default risk component as well as a risk premium component. Figure 2 represents the equilibrium spread determination graphically. The marginal valuation of Treasury securities is reﬂected in the downward sloping functionD(θT t ; Xt)=∆ ∗ t +v′(θT t ; Xt). This valuation is always at least ∆∗ t , the C-CAPM value of the spread. At the margin, the valuation decreases as the agent holds more Treasury debt. The supply of Treasury debt is represented by the vertical line at Θ T t . In the convenience yield model the spread falls as ΘT t rises. 3 Estimation Our baseline regressions involve the time series of the bond yield spread (the yield on corporate bonds minus the yield on Treasuries) as the dependent variable and the log of ratio of the stock of US government debt to US GDP as the independent variable, along with a number of controls we discuss below. Our convenience yield theory implies that the coeﬃcient on (log) government Debt/GDP in this regression will be negative. The main diﬃculty with interpreting such a regression is that changes in Θ T t /GDPt may be correlated with changes in ∆ ∗ t , so that the regression of the bond spread on log(ΘT t /GDPt) may yield a signiﬁcant coeﬃcient, despite there being no causal relation running from Θ T t /GDPt to the spread. For example, suppose that the true model is the C-CAPM, but increases in Θ T t /GDPt are correlated with decreases in ∆ ∗ t . Then, we will ﬁnd a negative coeﬃcient on log(ΘT t /GDPt) despite there being no convenience yield on Treasuries. There are two principal sources of such a correlation. Our primary concern is an omitted variable bias. If there is an economic shock that causes the government to increase ΘT t and that also causes corporate default risk to fall or the default risk premium charged by investors to fall, and our regressions do not control for 6To motivate this simpliﬁcation, note that if ct/GDPt is constant across time, then u′(ct) can be written as a function of GDPt. In our regressions we include GDPt as one of the Xt regressors. In the data the ratio ct/GDPt is relatively stable over time. 8
=== PAGE 10/56 ===
Figure 2: Bond Spread and Total Debt ∆* θ θT D(θT ; X ) t t tt t T The ﬁgure graphically illustrates the equilibrium determination of the spread between Treasury bond yields and corporate bond yields. The downward sloping curve is the demand for Treasury securities as a function of the spread in our convenience yield model. In the neoclassical C-CAPM model, this demand function is completely elastic at the representative agent’s risk prices. The horizontal dashed line in the ﬁgure corresponds to the C-CAPM demand. The supply of Treasury securities is represented by the vertical line at Θ T t . We assume that the government does not choose the stock of debt in response to the bond spread; hence the supply curve is inelastic. this shock, then our estimates will be biased.7,8 The solid line in Figure 3 plots the US Debt/GDP ratio from 1925 to 2005. The two main forces behind changes in the Debt/GDP ratio are wars and the business cycle (see Bohn (1998)). From the ﬁgure we see 7The spread, ∆ ∗ t could also fall if government debt becomes more risky when Θ T t rises, holding the risk of corporate debt ﬁxed. This seems implausible on a priori grounds. The government can always print money to pay oﬀ its debt. While this possible action may lead to (expected) inﬂation and thereby raise the interest rate on government debt, it will lead to an equal rise in the interest rate on corporate debt and no eﬀect on our spread measure. 8A related concern with our estimation has to do with interpreting the coeﬃcient on log(ΘT t /GDPt) as the slope of agents’ demand curve. That is, suppose that consistent with our convenience yield theory, the true demand curve for Treasuries is downward sloping. If there is a correlation between shifts in demand ( Xt) and shifts in supply (Θ T t )t h a ti sn o ta d e q u a t e l y controlled for, the coeﬃcient on Θ T t will be a biased estimate of the slope of agents’ demand curve. We deal with this issue in the regressions by controlling for demand shocks and presenting instrumental variables regressions. 9
=== PAGE 11/56 ===
that the Debt/GDP ratio rises during the Great Depression starting in 1930 and going through the mid- 1930s. The ratio rises again during the WWII period. The peacetime expansion beginning in 1950 gradually reduces the Debt/GDP ratio until about 1980 when the Reagan military build up expands the ratio again. Through the 1990s the ratio falls as the economy expands again. The ratio rises again starting in 2001, coincident with 9/11 and r ecessionary conditions. Thus, broadly speaking, war spending and recessions increase the Debt/GDP ratio, while expansions reduce the ratio. We note that, a priori, a negative economic shock that causes the government to increase the debt stock is more likely to increase than decrease ∆ ∗ t , so that the omitted variable bias may be less of a problem for our regressions. Empirically we deal with the omitted variable bias in three ways. First, we introduce controls that attempt to directly capture variation in ∆ ∗ t . We include corporate sector credit risk variables and business cycle measures that may control for changes in default risk and default risk premia. We also include standard controls for changes in marketwide risk premia such as the slope of the yield curve. Second, we present regressions where the dependent variable is the realized excess return on corporate bonds over government bonds (as opposed to the yield spread). Since return realizations encompass default-related events such as corporate bond downgrades, the return series will not be aﬀected by the default risk term in (2). In these regressions, we also include proxies for marketwide risk premia to control for the risk premium in the corporate bond returns. Last, we study disaggregated data where we present evidence consistent with our theory based on instrumental variables regressions. The second source of correlation in our setting arises because government behavior may both cause changes in the Debt/GDP ratio and the corporate bond spread. Suppose that a shock that we have not controlled for causes the government to spend resources (or lower taxes) in a way that increases the revenues of the corporate sector and raises the Debt/GDP ratio, then the default risk premium component ∆ ∗ t will fall when ΘT t rises. We deal with this concern as an omitted variable bias, and as explained above. Finally, note that the usual reverse causality concern that government behavior is an endogenous response to a change in prices is less of a concern in our setting because the price variable is a corporate bond spread. The US government is unlikely to choose the stock of outstanding debt in response to a change in the default risk of corporate bonds relative to Treasuries. It seems plausible that the government’s decision may respond to a change in the level of interest rates, but not a change in default spreads. Indeed, this is why we represent the supply curve in Figure 2 as a vertical line. Our use of interest rate spreads rather than the level of interest rates to discern the eﬀects of government debt policy avoids a number of diﬃcult issues that prior work testing Ricardian equivalence has had to contend with. 10
=== PAGE 12/56 ===
4 Aggregate Demand for Treasury Debt We adopt the following functional form in the regressions. We assume that v′(·) can be written as: v′(ΘT t ; Xt)= A + Bl o g(ΘT t /GDPt), where B< 0. The demand for Treasury debt should increase as the economy becomes larger. That is, as the economy grows, there is greater demand for Treasury securities for liquidity purposes, there are more oﬃcial transactions involving Treasury securities, and there are more unsophisticated households seeking savings vehicles. We scale the stock of Treasuries by US GDP to measure this demand eﬀect. The log function reﬂects that the marginal convenience valuation decreases more slowly as Θ T t increases, consistent with Figure 2. In contrast to our convenience yield theory, the log speciﬁcation implies that v′ may become negative. However, this only happens in two of the years we analyze (1945 and 1946 when the US Debt/GDP ratio is above one). 9 We adopt the log function primarily so that the coeﬃcient, B, can be interpreted as the semi-elasticity of the bond spread with respect to the stock of debt. We present regressions based on an exponential speciﬁcation where v ′ is always positive in Section 5. Over the range of variation of the Debt/GDP ratio, the results from the exponential speciﬁcations are almost identical to the log speciﬁcation. The linear regressions we present are thus for the relation: St = A + Bl o g(ΘT t /GDPt)+ CY t + ϵt (4) using St as a time series of bond yield spreads, Θ T t as the book value of publicly held Treasury debt, with controls for other factors (Yt) that aﬀect the C-CAPM value of the spread. We are centrally interested in estimating the semi-elasticity B. Note that we use the book value of Treasury debt rather than market value because our equilibrium relation, (3), expresses prices (the spread) as a function of quantities (book value of Treasury debt). If we were to use the market value of Treasury debt, the quantity measure would also reﬂect market prices. 4.1 Corporate Bond Spread Figure 3 graphs the percentage spread between the Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yield and the average yield on long maturity (> 10 years) Treasury bonds. Both data series are from the Federal Reserve’s FRED database and extend from 1925 to 2005 in the ﬁgure. The Moody’s index is constructed from a sample of long maturity (> 10 years) industrial and utility bonds. The Treasury yield is available from 1925 - 1999, 9Omitting these years leads to slightly stronger results, i.e. a steeper relation between the bond yield spread and the Debt/GDP ratio. See Section 8. 11
=== PAGE 52/56 ===
Table XI Alternative Default Controls This table presents regressions for alternative default controls. The dependent variable is the percentage spread between the Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yield and the average yield on long maturity ( > 10 years) Treasury bonds. Controls include the spread between Moody’s BAA minus Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yields and the spread between the 10 year Treasury yield and the 3 month Treasury yield (slope). Additional default controls are based on the percentage of companies that fail in a given year (pctfailed and dnb − pctfailed, as described in the text), and the annual volatility of the stock market over the preceding three years (volatility). All regressions include a constant. t-statistics based on Newey-West robust standard errors in parentheses. pctfailed dnb − pctfailed volatility 1963 - 2003 1927 - 1997 1928 - 2005 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) log(Debt/GDP ) -1.43 (5.53) -1.36 (4.31) -0.82 ( 6.52) -0.94 (6.12) -0.78 (6.57) -0.79 (5.65) BAA − AAA 0.17 (1.34) 0.10 (1.89) 0.06 (0.74) pctfailed 0.12 (2.16) 0.07 (1.15) dnb − pctfailed -0.09 (0.62) -0.36 (2.28) volatility 3.07 (3.33) 0.87 (0.50) slope 0.06 (1.16) 0.11 (2.46) 0.04 (1.18) R2 0.54 0.64 0.60 0.71 0.60 0.62 N 41 41 71 71 77 77 51
=== PAGE 53/56 ===
Table XII Control for Tax Eﬀects This table presents results from including a control for state tax eﬀects in our main regressions. The dependent variable is the corporate bond yield spread, measured as the spread between the Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yield and the average y i e l do nl o n gm a t u r i t y(> 10 years) Treasury bonds, both measure in percentage units. Both data series are from the Federal Reserve. Independent variables are based on the real book value of Treasury debt outstanding, real US GDP, and the spread between Moody’s BAA minus Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yields. The tax rate variable (taxrate × AAA) is computed from the IRS publication Statistics of Income as described in the text. All regressions include a constant. t-statistics based on Newey-West robust standard errors in parentheses. Data are annual, beginning in 1944 and ending in 2003. (1) (2) (3) log(Debt/GDP ) -0.89 (6.04) -0.69 (3.30) -0.69 (3.84) taxrate × AAA 0.48 (1.76) -0.16 (0.47) BAA − AAA 0.47 (3.25) N 60 60 60 Table XIII Regressions, by Subsample This table presents regressions for diﬀerent subsamples. The dependent variable is the percentage spread between the Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yield and the average yield on long maturity (> 10 years) Treasury bonds. Controls include the spread between Moody’s BAA minus Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yields and the spread between the 10 year Treasury yield and the 3 month Treasury yield (slope). All regressions include a constant. t-statistics based on Newey-West robust standard errors in parentheses. Data are annual, beginning in 1925 and ending in 2005. (1) (2) (3) Excluding 1942-1951 Excluding 1925-1941 Excluding 1925-1951 log(Debt/GDP ) -0.99 (6.34) -0.72 (4.57) -1.19 (5.64) BAA − AAA 0.07 (1.36) 0.34 (3.04) 0.24 (2.02) slope -0.08 (1.96) 0.02 (0.58) 0.05 (1.25) R2 0.63 0.65 0.71 N 71 64 54 52
=== PAGE 54/56 ===
Table XIV Scaling by Assets This table presents result from redoing regressions by scaling the stock of publicly held debt by household ﬁnancial assets (including mutual fund assets) from the Flow of Funds Accounts instead of US GDP. The dependent variables are the percentage spread between the Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yield and the average yield on long maturity ( > 10 years) Treasury bonds; the percentage diﬀerence between, (1) the return from investing in 6-month commercial paper in January and rolling over in July until the next January, and (2) the return from rolling over Treasury bills over the same period; and, the 10 year interest rate swap spread. Controls include the spread between Moody’s BAA minus Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yields, and the spread between the 10 year Treasury yield and the 3 month Treasury yield ( slope). All regressions include a constant. t-statistics based on Newey-West robust standard errors in parentheses. Data are annual, beginning in 1945, except for the swap spread regression where data begin in 1987. Data end in 2005. Dependent Variable AAA − Treas CP − Bills SwapSpread (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) log(Debt/FinAss) -0.64 (4.64) -0.64 (4.46) -0.21 (1.22) -0.01 (0.06) -0.37 (1.40) -0.09 (0.33) BAA − AAA 0.51 (4.92) 0.50 (4.74) 0.33 (2.14) 0.59 (4.57) 0.48 (1.82) 0.79 (3.08) slope 0.00 (0.11) -0.25 (5.49) -0.15 (4.11) R2 0.53 0.68 0.17 0.45 0.27 0.56 N 61 61 61 61 19 19 53
=== PAGE 55/56 ===
Table XV Publicly held Debt, excluding Fed Holdings This table presents result from redoing regressions by excluding Federal Reserve holdings from the deﬁnition of the stock of outstanding debt. The Federal Reserve holdings are available from the Flow of Funds Accounts starting in 1945. The dependent variables are the percentage spread between the Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yield and the average yield on long maturity ( > 10 years) Treasury bonds; the percentage diﬀerence between, (1) the return from investing in 6-month commercial paper in January and rolling over in July until the next January, and (2) the return from rolling over Treasury bills over the same period; and, the 10 year interest rate swap spread. Controls include the spread between Moody’s BAA minus Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yields, and the spread between the 10 year Treasury yield and the 3 month Treasury yield (slope). All regressions include a constant. t-statistics based on Newey-West robust standard errors in parentheses. Data are annual, beginning in 1945, except for the swap spread regression where data begin in 1987. Data end in 2005. Dependent Variable AAA − Treas CP − Bills SwapSpread (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) log(Debt− FED /GDP ) -0.61 (4.55) -0.64 (4.40) -0.37 (2.56) -0.14 (0.95) -0.36 (0.67) -0.05 (0.13) BAA − AAA 0.42 (3.89) 0.39 (3.62) 0.21 (1.37) 0.50 (4.43) 0.39 (0.92) 0.79 (2.73) slope 0.03 (0.66) -0.23 (4.67) -0.16 (4.11) R2 0.69 0.69 0.23 0.47 0.22 0.55 N 61 61 61 61 19 19 54
=== PAGE 56/56 ===
Table XVI Level of Interest Rates This table presents results from including the level of real or nominal interest rates as control. The dependent variable is the corporate bond yield spread, measured as the spread between the Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yield and the average yield on long maturity (> 10 years) Treasury bonds, both measure in percentage units. Both data series are from the Federal Reserve. Independent variables are based on the real book value of Treasury debt outstanding, real US GDP, the spread between Moody’s BAA minus Moody’s AAA long maturity bond yields, and the spread between the 10 year Treasury yield and the 3 month Treasury yield (slope). The real interest rate is computed as the average Federal Funds rate over the year minus either the CPI inﬂation for the same year (ex-post real) or the inﬂation for the preceding year (ex-ante real). The nominal interest rates is the Moody’s AAA yield. All regressions include a constant. t-statistics based on Newey-West robust standard errors in parentheses. The real interest rate regressions use data from 1955 to 2005. The nominal rate regression used data from 1925 to 2005. (1) (2) (3) log(Debt/GDP ) -1.32 (4.80) -1.25 (5.30) -0.61 (5.43) BAA − AAA 0.19 ( 0.94) 0.25 (1.76) 0.12 (2.53) slope 0.06 (1.22) 0.05 (1.11) 0.02 (0.59) Ex-post Real 0.005 (0.19) Ex-ante Real -0.01 (0.44) Nominal AAA 0.04 (3.33) R 2 0.70 0.70 0.68 N 55 55 81 55