
=== PAGE 1/37 ===
NBER WORKING PAPER SERIES THE SUPPLY AND DEMAND FOR SAFE ASSETS Gary B. Gorton Guillermo Ordoñez Working Paper 18732 http://www.nber.org/papers/w18732 NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH 1050 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 January 2013 The views expressed herein are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Bureau of Economic Research. NBER working papers are circulated for discussion and comment purposes. They have not been peer- reviewed or been subject to the review by the NBER Board of Directors that accompanies official NBER publications. © 2013 by Gary B. Gorton and Guillermo Ordoñez. All rights reserved. Short sections of text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided that full credit, including © notice, is given to the source. 
=== PAGE 2/37 ===
The Supply and Demand for Safe Assets Gary B. Gorton and Guillermo Ordoñez NBER Working Paper No. 18732 January 2013, Revised April 2020 JEL No. E0,E02,E2,E3,E32,E4,E41,G01,G12,G2 ABSTRACT Safe assets are demanded to smooth consumption across states (both intertemporally and in cross-section). Some of these assets are supplied publicly (government bonds) and some are created and supplied privately (such as mortgagebacked securities and asset-backed securities). Private assets are created endogenously when the supply of government bonds is low. Private assets are used as collateral and come in heterogeneous quality. Financial fragility is the probability that a large amount of private assets are examined, some are found to be of low quality and then some firms cannot get loans. We characterize the government’s optimal supply of government bonds when considering their effects on the creation of private assets and on economy-wide fragility. We show that monetary and macroprudential policies cannot be run in isolation. When there are too many private assets the government should operate a Bond Exchange Facility that exchanges private assets for public safe assets. Gary B. Gorton Yale School of Management 135 Prospect Street P.O. Box 208200 New Haven, CT 06520-8200 and NBER Gary.Gorton@yale.edu Guillermo Ordoñez University of Pennsylvania Department of Economics 428 McNeil Building 3718 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 and NBER ordonez@econ.upenn.edu
=== PAGE 3/37 ===
1 Introduction Safe assets play an essential role in the economy. A safe asset is an asset whose real value does not ﬂuctuate in response to different shocks. In other words, the level of consumption that holding a safe asset allows is insulated from potential shocks. In this paper we explore the reasons that safe assets are demanded and we explore the central bank’s role in their provision. We show that monetary policy cannot be separated from macroprudential policy. The demand for safe assets comes from two needs: agents wanting to smooth con- sumption: over time, inter-temporal consumption smoothing and in cross-section across states of nature. For instance, lenders want to equalize consumption over different realizations of productivity, and so a safe asset is demanded as collateral. The supply of safe assets comes from two sources: public and private. Public safe assets are gov- ernment bonds, promises that the government can make by relying on its taxation power. Private safe assets (such as real estate, mortgage-backed securities, etc) take the form of promises that private agents can make by transforming non-pledgeable and perishable goods into non-perishable and pledgeable assets. As private safe as- sets may be of heterogeneous quality, their safety (the stability of their real value) depends on information about such quality not being revealed. Thus, private assets are safe as long as they are information-insensitive. Issues surrounding safe assets have become increasingly pressing since the trans- formation of the ﬁnancial system from a retail-based banking system to a wholesale banking system, starting in the late 1970s. Gorton, Lewellen, and Metrick (2010) show that as a percentage of the total privately-produced safe debt, demand deposits have fallen from about 80% in the 1950’s to 31% now. In contrast, short-term money market instruments rose from 11% to 21% and AAA asset-backed and mortgage-backed se- curities rose from zero to 18%. More generally, the “shadow banking system,” which is the sum of mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and money-like debt in- struments, grew from 11% to 38%, getting larger in levels than demand deposits. This transformation seems to be permanent. In this new ﬁnancial landscape, U.S. Treasuries are more important than previously. Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen (2012 and 2015) show that Treasuries have a convenience yield, arising from their safety property. Gorton, Lewellen, and Metrick (2010), Xie (2012), and Sunderam (2015) show that the private sector produces more 1
=== PAGE 4/37 ===
private safe assets when the supply of Treasuries declines. Private safe assets, how- ever, are not perfect substitutes for public safe assets in terms of safety, as information about their heterogeneous quality can be produced, increasing the likelihood of a ﬁ- nancial crisis. This creates a challenge for policies that affect the supply of Treasuries without considering their effect on ﬁnancial stability. This is clearly the case for the central bank, which uses open market operations to exchange one kind of money, Treasuries, for another kind of money, cash (numeraire in our setting). As we do not address ﬁscal policy in this paper, we use the terms ”central bank” and ”government” interchangeably. The central bank faces a problem when, by implementing a monetary policy, it wants to reduce the supply of Treasuries but does not want to trigger information acqui- sition about the quality of private collateral, that may trigger a ﬁnancial crisis as information-insensitive collateral becomes information-sensitive (as in Dang, Gorton, and Holmstr ¨om (2013)). In this setting, macroprudential policy cannot be separated from monetary policy, contrary to the existing literature, e.g., see Svensson (2018) and Bernanke (2018). The central bank needs another tool. It needs to be able to swap Treasuries for private safe assets in order to cope with two goals. To build these ideas and identify the role of each element, we proceed in steps. We ﬁrst explore the roles for safe assets assuming that only the government supplies them by issuing government bonds. We show that the government may face a trade- off: providing bonds to serve as collateral in a given period may distort consumption smoothing across periods. We solve the constrained planner’s problem and charac- terize the optimal amount of bonds that the government should provide to optimize this trade-off. We show that, if the market for bonds is competitive, the optimum is implemented when the return on bonds is zero. This implies that the convenience yield (here, the departure from zero returns) is a good signal that the government can exploit to guide potential mistakes in the supply of bonds. Intuitively, returns on bonds are positive when there is an abundance of bonds (then the government needs to compensate agents to hold those bonds) and reducing the supply would improve intertemporal consumption smoothing. In contrast, if returns are negative (a positive convenience yield) when there is scarcity of bonds. In this case, increasing the supply would optimally provide more collateral. We then introduce the possibility that agents create private safe assets. At a cost, agents can transform non-pledgeable and perishable goods into pledgeable and non- 2
=== PAGE 5/37 ===
perishable assets. Pledgeability allows the private asset to be used as collateral and share consumption across agents in a given period. Non-perishability allows the pri- vate asset to be used to move consumption across periods and smooth consumption over time. The possibility of creating private assets optimally reduces the need for the government to provide public safe assets. But, in contrast to government bonds, private assets can potentially be of hetero- geneous quality. This is relevant because information about such quality in credit markets introduces dispersion in investment scale (this is, ex-ante risk). Better col- lateral can support a larger loan. The possibility of a sudden change in information production about private collateral in credit markets introduces systemic risk; invest- ment projects based on loans against bad collateral may not be undertaken. Pro- duction crashes. In other words, information-insensitive collateral (no information is produced) is more beneﬁcial than information-sensitive collateral (information is produced), and a crisis happens when there is a change in regime from the ﬁrst case to the second, as in Gorton and Ordonez (2014 and 2018). We study the incentives that lenders have to investigate private collateral. We show that information acquisition is more likely the scarcer are government bonds relative to the needs for collateral to ﬁnance investment, the lower the average quality of pri- vate assets and the lower the quality of investments. This shows the interconnection between public and private assets. When public assets are abundant, there is both less use of private assets and less incentives to acquire information about their quality. We study the dynamics of our environment and make two points. First, we show con- ditions under which monetary policy cannot be considered in isolation from macro- prudential policy. The constrained optimum speciﬁes an optimal amount of govern- ment bonds that implements the right combination of intertemporal smoothing and collateral, while discouraging information acquisition about private collateral. Conven- tional monetary policies that exchanges bonds for cash (numeraire) is just one tool, and may not be able to achieve both goals at the same time. If this is not possible, the government needs a new tool to be able to exchange government bonds for private assets. The new policy tool we discuss here is not like quantitative easing, which ex- changes cash for government bonds. Rather the new tool is like the Term Securities Lending Facility (which the Fed opened during the Financial Crisis) which allowed for the exchange of private safe assets for government bonds (not cash); see Fleming, Hrung, and Keane (2009). We will call this new tool the ”Bond Exchange Facility” 3
=== PAGE 6/37 ===
(BEF), with a plausible implementation as discussed in Gorton and Ordonez (2020). Conventional monetary policy can implement optimal intertemporal smoothing, but the BEF is needed to guarantee that information production about private collateral is avoided. Second, a transitory shock that reduces the supply of public bonds available as col- lateral, induces an increase in the production of private collateral, increasing the in- centives to acquire information and ﬁnancial fragility, as information acquisition of a large volume of private assets suddenly reduces output and welfare, a crisis.1 Only the BEF can prove effective to rapidly take private collateral ”out of circulation”, hence reducing fragility without distorting consumption smoothing. There is a large literature on the role that government safe assets play in supply- ing private agents with collateral or liquidity. In different circumstances, govern- ment debt can relieve constraints on the private economy. Examples of this line of research include Woodford (1990), Aiyagari and McGrattan (1998), Holmstr ¨om and Tirole (1998), and more recently Angeletos, Collard, and Dellas (2016) and Azzimonti and Yared (2019). In contrast to this literature, we focus on the ﬁnancial stability considerations that arise when private agents produce private safe assets of hetero- geneous quality in response to a dearth of public safe assets. The likelihood of a ﬁnancial crisis is increasing in the ratio of private safe assets to public safe assets. This complicates what would otherwise be the government’s optimal policy. The paper proceeds as follows. In Section 2 we introduce the basic model with no in- formation frictions. We show the two sources of demand for safe assets: consumption smoothing and collateral. We also show the two sources of supply: public bonds and privately-produced safe assets. In Section 3 we introduce information frictions. We show that the privately-produced safe assets are only ”safe” as long as no information is produced about their quality. In Section 4 we extend the model to an overlapping generations model and characterize the steady states. In this setting we show the potential need for the BEF to exchange government bonds for privately-produced safe assets and we explore the effects of an unexpected negative supply shock fo the supply of government bonds. Section 5 concludes. 1The global savings glut is an example of such a reduction in the supply of government bonds. See, e.g., Bernanke (2005). 4
=== PAGE 7/37 ===
2 Two Period Model Without Information Frictions In this section we introduce the two sources of demand for safe assets (consumption smoothing and collateral and the two sources of supply (public and private). First, as a benchmark, we consider a simple setting with public supply (government bonds) and a single role (consumption smoothing). Then, we add the second role (collateral) and show that a government that fails to acknowledge this role may err in differ- ent ways in the provision of bonds, depending on the policy misspeciﬁcation. Such mistakes can be avoided if the government uses information about the convenience yield to guide their bond policy. Finally, we introduce assets that can be produced privately and that are in competition with government bonds. Private assets can also serve both roles. Here we show that this possibility changes the optimal provision of bonds as a function of how costly it is to produce private assets and how well they can serve as collateral. 2.1 Optimal Bond Policy when Bonds are not Collateral Assume households live for two periods in an endowment economy. Endowment in the ﬁrst period is Y1 and endowment in the second period is Y2. The consumption of numeraire good gives households utility U(C), which is separable, strictly concave and that satisﬁes the Inada conditions. The discount between periods is β. Unconstrained Optimum: The planner’s problem (which is the same as the house- hold problem when it can move resources freely across periods) is max C1,C2 U(C1) + βU (C2) subject to C1 + C2≤ Y1 + Y2 which is simply characterized by the Euler equation U′(C1) = βU′(C2) 5
=== PAGE 8/37 ===
Assuming U(C) = log C, for instance, the solution is just given by C1 = Y1 + Y2 1 + β and C2 = βC1 So the planner would perfectly smooth consumption if it has the technology to trans- fer resources across periods. Equilibrium and Optimal Implementation: Imagine now households cannot trans- fer resources across periods but the government has access to a storage technology that can do it. This “time machine” technology is just a shortcut to endow the gov- ernment with a taxation technology in a more involved setting with different groups (other groups) in which Ricardian Equivalence does not hold. Ricardian Equivalence might not hold for instance in an overlapping generations en- vironment in which every generation has Y1 > 0 and Y2 = 0. The government could tax the young to give to the old (without altruism considerations that may recover the equivalence (see Barro (1974)). 2 The way to implement this policy would be to sell bonds to the young and pay them when old with tax revenue from the next young generation. We explore this possibility later in the paper. Another example in which this “time machine” technology redistributes wealth across periods is by having two coexisting types of households, one with complete access to credit markets, and the other (the one we model here) without access. The govern- ment could tax the group with access and give to the group without access to credit. The effect of incomplete markets on the failure of the Ricardian Equivalence has been explored by Aiyagari (1994) and Heathcote (2005) among others. Finally, a third reason often used to contest Ricardian Equivalence is the distortionary effects of taxation (see Auerbach and Kotlikoff (1987) and McGrattan (1994)). Here we show a very reduced-form version of this logic. To operate this “time machine” the government can offer to sell (or buy) Treasury bonds B in the ﬁrst period at a price P , which can be positive (buy) or negative (sell). Consider agents buying bonds. If the government’s promise in the second period ex- ceeds what the government collects in the ﬁrst period (this isB > P B ), the difference has to be raised by taxing second-period households’ endowments, Y2. We assume 2Several empirical studies (Altonji, Hayashi, and Kotlikoff (1992, 1996 and 1997)) ﬁnd that house- holds are not altruistically-linked in a way consistent with Ricardian Equivalence. 6
=== PAGE 9/37 ===
that taxing endowments is distortionary, as it destroysχ units of endowment per unit of tax. Furthermore, in case the government promises in the second period less than collected in the ﬁrst (this is B < P B ), we assume the extra resources are “thrown into the ocean”. The household problem in this economy becomes max C1,C2,B U(C1) + βU (C2) subject to C1 + P B ≤ Y1 C2 ≤ Y2 + B− T T = (1 + χ) max{0,(1− P )B}. Plugging taxes into the second-period households’ budget constraint, the maximiza- tion problem becomes: C1 + P B ≤ Y1 C2 ≤ Y2 + Bm. with the distortion formally deﬁned as m = min{1, 1− (1 + χ)(1− P )}. (1) The Euler equation is P U′(C1) = βmU′(C2) and the unconstrained optimum is implemented when P = m, which implies P = 1. To ﬁx ideas, from the Euler equation and the resource constraints we can obtain the demand for Treasury bonds. Take the log case, as before, P 1 Y1− P B = β m Y2 + Bm =⇒ B = βY1− P m Y2 (1 + β)P , decreasing in the price P . Notice that the social planner wants to choose the supply 7
=== PAGE 10/37 ===
of bonds BS such that P m = 1, this is, B∗ S = βY1− Y2 (1 + β) , (2) where the optimal supply of bonds increases with Y1 and decreases with Y2. If βY1 > Y2 the government would like to sell bonds in the ﬁrst period (in exchange for nu- meraire) to implement the unconstrained optimum by reducing the consumption of households in the ﬁrst period and increasing it in the second period. If βY1 < Y 2 the government would like to buy bonds from households in the ﬁrst period to imple- ment the unconstrained optimum, this time by increasing consumption in the ﬁrst period with resources coming from the second period (or from another unmodelled group in the same period). Notice that if bonds are abundant and P < 1, then P m = P P−χ(1−P ) > 1,3 which implies that the government has to distort consumption in the second period with taxes, forc- ing it to also inefﬁciently reduce consumption in the ﬁrst period. At the other extreme, if bonds are scarce, and P > 1, then P m = P 1 > 1, which implies that the government extracts more in the ﬁrst period than what it can deliver in the second period, wasting resources and reducing consumption excessively. Notice also that, in the case where taxation is not distortionary (this is χ = 0), m = 1 and any price P≤ 1 is consistent with optimal implementation, a version of Ricardian Equivalence in our setting. Relation with Monetary Policy: The planner’s optimal P ≡ 1 1+r = 1 can be imple- mented by a monetary authority that uses Treasury bonds to conduct open market operations and sets 1 + r = 1 (a Friedman rule, given our assumption that creating bonds is costless for the government). If the central bank expects Y2 to be very low with respect to Y1 it would like to increase the interest rate to “cool down” the econ- omy by reducing consumption and aggregate demand. An increase of interest rates is the same as reducing the price of government bonds. Alternatively the central bank could sell Treasury bonds (increase BS) in exchange for money (numeraire) (an in- crease in 1 + r). The opposite happens when Y2 is expected to be large relative to Y1 and the central bank would like to reduce rates, by buying Treasury bonds, to “stim- ulate” the economy by increasing consumption and aggregate demand. The amount of bonds given in equation (2) is what implements the optimal level of consumption in the economy. 3Whenχ> P 1−P , then P m < 0, which also distorts consumption. 8
=== PAGE 11/37 ===
Convenience Yield: Notice that a shortage of Treasuries introduces a convenience yield for government bonds. From market clearing, when B = BS: P = βY1 (1 + β)BS + Y2 . As the supply of Treasuries, BS, decreases, its price increases. Taking the optimal price as 1, the convenience yield can be written as P− 1, or CY ≡ P− 1 = (βY1− Y2)− (1 + β)BS (1 + β)BS + Y2 . (3) The convenience yield is zero only when BS = B∗ S from equation (2), and the optimal amount of bonds is provided to perfectly smooth consumption. 2.2 Optimal Bond Policy with Bonds as Collateral Now we extend the endowment setting to include production with credit needs. More speciﬁcally, a fraction x of households have an investment opportunity at the beginning of the second period, after the endowment Y2 is obtained but before con- sumption takes place. This investment opportunity transforms l unit of endowment good per household into Alα units of endowment good. The rest of the households 1− x do not have any investment opportunities. Whether a household is productive or not is realized at the beginning of the second period. The unconstrained optimal scale of production for each productive household is given by maxl[Alα− l], or l∗ = [αA] 1 1−α . To simplify the cases in terms of feasibility, in what follows, we assume that Y2 < l∗ < Y2 x . In other words, the endowment of each house- hold is not enough to ﬁnance production at optimal scale, but the endowments of all households is sufﬁcient. Constrained Optimum: Now, we solve for the constrained optimum, in which the planner still possesses the technology to transfer resources across periods, but can- not impose a transfer between productive and unproductive agents within the sec- ond period. This implies that, i) projects can only be operated by productive agents with own endowments (either current or saved from the ﬁrst period) and ii) there is no cross-insurance of consumption between productive and non-productive agents. 9
=== PAGE 12/37 ===
This constrained problem is then: max C1,Cp,2,Cnp,2,l U(C1) + β[xU(Cp,2) + (1− x)U(Cnp,2)] subject to C1 + Cp,2≤ Y1 + Y2 +ˆY2 C1 + Cnp,2≤ Y1 + Y2 ˆY2 = [Alα− l] l≤ Y2 + (Y1− C1). Denoting by µ the Lagrange multiplier of this last, credit constraint, the ﬁrst order conditions are: {C1} : U′(C1) = λp,2 + λnp,2 + µ {Cp,2} : βxU′(Cp,2) = λp,2 {Cnp,2} : β(1− x)U′(Cnp,2) = λnp,2 {l} : λp,2(αAlα−1− 1) = µ Deﬁning the marginal return of the project as R(l) = αAlα−1− 1, with R(l) > 0 and R′(l) < 0 in equilibrium, and R(l∗) = 0 . Combining these condi- tions U′(C1)− βE(U′(C2)) = βxU′(Cp,2)R(l). (4) This equation highlights the main trade-off that the planner faces given that he is con- strained from moving resources between agents with different investment opportu- nities. The planner equalizes the intertemporal smoothing distortions (the difference between U′(C1) and βE(U′(C2))) with the increase in extra second period’s production obtained by moving resources to the second period (x productive agents will be able to produce an extra numeraire R(l), which they value at βU′(Cp,2) at the margin).4 4If there are enough resources such that the planner implementsl∗, thenR(l∗) = 0 and the planner does not need to introduce intertemporal distortions. 10
=== PAGE 33/37 ===
can both provide bonds to sustain no information acquisition in the second period, without reducing consumption in the ﬁrst period. Proposition 2 When the quality of private collateral is good enough, conventional policy is enough to implement the constrained optimum. When the quality of private collateral declines, the government may need to resort to using BEF (unconventional policy) to fulﬁll both ﬁnancial stability and consumption smoothing goals. 4.5 Shocks to the supply or demand of bonds Assume the economy is in a steady state such that P = 1 and there is no information acquisition in credit markets. In this section we analyze how the economy fares when, at period t, BSS temporarily declines to ˆB (for instance because the central bank re- duces interest rates in response to a recession or because there are foreign shocks that increase the foreign demand for bonds, making them scarcer domestically). On impact, this transitory negative shock to the supply of bonds implies that Pt > 1 on impact, and that the consumption of the young compared to steady state increases (this is C1t > C 1).7 As the production of private assets took place in period t by the time the shock to the supply of bonds happens, there is a reduction in the wealth available to the old in t + 1 (less available bonds to consume in t + 1). This implies that, not only are there fewer assets to sustain credit in the next period (acredit crunch because there are fewer bonds available), but there is also an increase in the incentives to acquire information about private collateral, potentially inducing a crisis. Recall that information is not acquired as long as d¯p[U(CI np,2)− U(CU np,2)]≤ ψ where CU np,2 = Y2 + ˆB + ZSS CI np,2 = Y2 + ˆB + ZSS + (1− ¯p) ¯p ZSS 7For simplicity we maintain the assumption that the extra resources the government obtains from P >1 are thrown to the ocean and then do not affect future generations’ consumption. 31
=== PAGE 34/37 ===
This inequality is less likely to hold in steady state, as t + 1 lenders are relatively poorer and the potential gains of investigating private collateral are larger in terms of marginal utility. To see this, assume log utility: ∂[UI− UU] ∂B = 1 Y2 + B + Z/p− 1 Y2 + B + Z < 0 This is a pure wealth effect. Lenders are more afraid of providing loans. In period t + 1, if the scarcity of bonds continues, young agents react by producing more private assets than in steady state. This is because the scarcity of bonds distorts consumption smoothing, increasing youth consumption and reducing old wealth and consumption. This induces the young at t + 1 to move consumption from young to old by producing private assets. Then Zt+1 > ZSS, and then lt+2 > lt+1. The higher supply of private assets has the double effect of increasing credit and the wealth of lenders in period t + 2, compared to period t + 1. With log preferences ∂[UI− UU] ∂Z = 1 p(Y2 + B + Z/p)− 1 Y2 + B + Z > 0 Even though at t + 2 lenders are wealthier than in t + 1, and then less interested in acquiring information about private collateral, there is also more use of private assets as collateral. The second effect dominates. Hence, when bonds at t and t + 1 are scarce, fragility is larger on impact (at t + 1), but even larger subsequently (at t + 2). If the new, lower, level of government bonds is permanent, the economy moves to a new steady state with fewer bonds, more private assets and more fragility. Whether the new steady state is information-sensitive or insensitive depends on parameters and the extent of bond supply scarcity. If, at a later period T , bonds suddenly return to the original steady state level (the source of the shock disappears, for instance), the economy takes time to return to the original level of fragility. The reason is that the economy has accumulated a relatively large volume of private assets, which takes time to depreciate. This implies that a transitory shock to the supply of bond can have long lasting consequences in terms of fragility through the accumulation of private collateral. In this instance, the use of BEF, by taking private assets “out of circulation” and re- 32
=== PAGE 35/37 ===
placing them with bonds as collateral, also has the important role of speeding up the transition of the economy to a less fragile environment once the transitory shock has concluded. The optimal design of a BEF is discussed in Gorton and Ordonez (2020). 5 Conclusion Economic agents demand safe assets to smooth consumption across periods and to use as collateral, which smooths lenders’ consumption across states in a given period. The main difference between public and private safe assets is that the latter come in heterogeneous quality. Here we show that information about individual assets’ qual- ity may reduce their safety and make them less useful for smoothing consumption across states. When information acquisition is a choice, there are conditions (notably the volume of public safe assets) under which such information is not produced and private assets are indeed safe assets. Those conditions, however, may change if a large volume of private assets’ qualities gets examined, a crisis. We have explored the optimal supply of public safe assets needed to accommodate the demand when considering their effects on the creation of private assets and on information production about these assets. The government should strive to maintain intertemporal consumption smoothing and provide enough collateral to avoid too much private asset creation and, possibly, information production about those private assets. Monetary policy and macroprudential policy, however, cannot be conducted in iso- lation. Open market operations exchange cash (numeraire) for government bonds. Monetary policy may require taking government bonds out of the economy (to re- duce interest rates, for instance). But if this policy generates a scarcity of government bonds as collateral, the private sector reacts by creating more private safe assets. Pri- vate safe asset creation, however, increases the fragility of the ﬁnancial system (the likelihood of a ﬁnancial crisis). The goals of facilitating consumption smoothing while minimizing the likelihood of a ﬁnancial crisis are two goals that may be mutually ex- clusive when the average quality of private assets is low. In this circumstance the government should also rely on the use of a Bond Exchange Facility that contempo- raneously exchanges private assets for government bonds (in a repo-type operation). 33
=== PAGE 36/37 ===
References Aiyagari, Rao, and Ellen McGrattan. 1998. “The Optimum Quantity of Debt.”Journal of Monetary Economics 42:447–469. Aiyagari, S. Rao. 1994. “Uninsured Idiosyncratic Risk and Aggregate Saving.”Quar- terly Journal of Economics 109 (3): 659–84. Altonji, Joseph, Fumio Hayashi, and Laurence Kotlikoff. 1992. “Is the Extended Family Altruistically Linked? Direct Tests Using Micro Data.”American Economic Review 82:1177–1198. . 1996. “Risk-Sharing between and within Families.” Econometrica 64:261–294. . 1997. “Parental Altruism and Inter Vivos Transfers: Theory and Evidence.” Journal of Political Economy 105:1121–1166. Angeletos, George-Marios, Fabrice Collard, and Harris Dellas. 2016. “Public Debt as Private Liquidity: Optimal Policy.” MIT Working Paper. Auerbach, Alan, and Lawrence Kotlikoff. 1987. Dynamic Fiscal Policy. Cambridge University Press. Azzimonti, Marina, and Pierre Yared. 2019. “The optimal public and private provi- sion of safe assets.” Journal of Monetary Economics 102:126–144. Barro, Robert. 1974. “Are Government Bonds Net Wealth?” Journal of Political Econ- omy 82:1095–1117. Bernanke, Ben. 2005. “The Global Savings Glut and the U.S. Current Account De- ﬁicit.” The Sandridge Lecture, Virginia Association of Economists, Richmond VA. . 2018. “Should Monetary Policy Take into Account Risks to Financial Stabil- ity?” speech in London, May 20,2014. Dang, Tri Vi, Gary Gorton, and Bengt Holmstr ¨om. 2013. “Ignorance, Debt and Financial Crises.” Working Paper , Yale University. Fleming, Michael, Warren Hrung, and Frank Keane. 2009. “The Term Securities Lending Facility: Origin, Design, and Effects.” New York Federal Reserve Current Issues, vol. 15. Gorton, Gary, Stefan Lewellen, and Andrew Metrick. 2010. “The Safe Asset Share.” American Economic Review, Papers and Proceedings 102:101–106. Gorton, Gary, and Guillermo Ordonez. 2014. “Collateral Crises.” American Economic Review 104 (2): 343–378. . 2018. “Good Booms, Bad Booms.” Journal of the European Economic Asso- ciation. Forthcoming. . 2020. “Fighting Crises with Secrecy.” AEJ: Macroeconomics. Forthcoming. 34
=== PAGE 37/37 ===
Heathcote, Jonathan. 2005. “Fiscal Policy with Heterogeneous Agents and Incom- plete Markets.” Review of Economic Studies 72:161–188. Holmstr¨om, Bengt, and Jean Tirole. 1998. “Private and Public Supply of Liquidity.” Journal of Political Economy 106:1–40. Krishnamurthy, Arvind, and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen. 2012. “The Aggregate De- mand for Treasury Debt.” Journal of Political Economy 120:233–267. . 2015. “The Impact of Treasury Supply on Financial Sector Lending.” Journal of Financial Economics 118:571–600. McGrattan, Ellen. 1994. “The Macroeconomic Effects of Distortionary Taxation.” Journal of Monetary Economics 33:573–601. Sunderam, Adi. 2015. “Money Creation and the Shadow Banking System.” Review of Financial Studies 28:939–977. Svensson, Lars E. O. 2018. “Monetary Policy and Macrorpudential Policy: Different and Separate?” Canadian Journal of Economics, forthcoming. Woodford, Michael. 1990. “Public Debt as Private Liquidity.” American Ecoomic Review 80:382–388. Xie, Lei. 2012. “The Seasons of Money: ABS/MBS Issuance and the Convenience Yield.” Working Paper, Yale University. 35